Wisps appear as ethereal faces wreathed in some kind of flame or energy, the specifics of which vary largely based off the wisp's origins and environment. It is unclear how intelligent, or even sapient, wisps are as have been demonstrated to comprehend basic language and have even been bound as servants. Many would claim wisps are wicked and malevolent entities that seek to torture innocent victims, but more objective studies of their behaviour seems to suggest something else. As ethereal creatures, wisps do not eat or drink, instead it seems that they consume the psychic residue of strong emotions. Unfortunately, it seems that the primary diet of most wisps is fear, leading them to engage in behaviours that terrify mortals. The as yet unresolved question is whether wisps understand what is actually happening - do they understand what fear is, or are they just engaging in learned behaviours that result in them getting fed unaware of the less than pleasant experience they are creating in the process.
## Galazos Wisps
Also known as blue wisps or coldfire wisps, these wisps live in colder climates such as temperate forests or snowy mountains. In addition to their flames being cold rather than hot, they also seem to be able to exert control over how much light they emit, shifting between effectively invisible to dazzlingly bright.
## Ammolos Wisps
Also known as dune wisps or sand wisps, these wisps live in the northern steppes and desert regions. Their flames don't burn as hot, but contact with them is known to leave horrible scorches that continue to burn for long afterwards. It is said by those who frequent infested regions that the closer someone is to death, the more clearly they can see the hazy forms of the wisps.
## Akyron Wisps
Also known as spell-eaters or grey wisps, these wisps have only been seen in places with a history of terrible magic, something only more common after the War. Unlike most wisps who feed of fear, these wisps seem to instead be sustained by magic, being drawn to mages and artefacts and siphoning off arcane energies from them. It seems that these were once normal wisps, with sightings of spell-eater ammolos wisps, and spell-eater diktion wisps.
## Diktion Wisps
Also known as deep wisps or water wisps, these wisps are found deep below the water in places such as the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Koray Caves|Koray Caves]] or shipwrecks along the coast. They seem unable to leave the water for long, often burning with a cool green light although it burns all the same.
## Synchris Wisps
Also known as swamp wisps or fae wisps, these wisps are most commonly found in swamps or old ruins. Unlike many wisps, they do not feed on fear, but instead feed on confusion. Rather than terrifying victims, they instead aim to disorient and gaslight travellers into becoming panicked and disoriented.
## Corpselight
A bizarre anomaly of wisp, they possess corpses and animate them to act as a sort of host body. Why they do this is unclear, some speculate that these are wisps who are unable to sustain their ethereal form due to starvation, while others suspect that these are wisps who are actively attempting to manifest more physically, and again others argue that this is just another strategy for them to try and elicit fear.
## Voidgluttons
Whenever a wisp finds itself somewhere with ample supply of fear and other negative emotions, they can gorge themselves until the eventually become a voidglutton. More powerful than most wisps, they can become a real problem if their source of sustenance is suddenly interrupted. There have been cases where communities under the scourge of voidgluttons actively sacrifice people to sate their appetites rather than let them go hungry.
## Agnoia Wisps
Also known as death wisps or Vorvado's wisps, they have only been spotted deep in the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Sullen Swamp|Sullen Swamp]]. Little concreate information has been gathered on them, and they are greatly feared by swamp-dwellers. It is said that they are first noticed not by their dull light, but by a whispering heard all around. They seem to blink unpredictably around their victims, who seem to quickly succumb to a mixture of apathy and fatigue. It is said that they eat all emotion, not just fear, and do so in such a way that their victims never feel again.
