---
title: "Agercort"
---
Situated in the southwest of the continent, sitting on the borders of the [[Geography/Natural/Forests#Black Forest|Black Forest]] lies the kingdom of Agercort. The youngest and smallest of the four kingdoms, it is a land of relative peace and prosperity. Many of its towns and castles still bear fresh stonework only decades old, and there are villages where the elders remember the first time the fields there were sown. When thinking of Agercort, many foreigners conjure images of clean cobblestone roads, cosy cottages, and windmills amidst fields of wheat. This is certainly the image that [[Culture/Important People#King Tyrell of Agercort|King Tyrell]] hopes to project beyond his borders. While the majority of the population is [[Culture/Mortal Races/Human|human]], all are welcome to come and settle in Agercort. A fact that is promoted to try and encourage foreigners to come and settle in the small kingdom to bolster its population. While there are some major established towns in Agercort, many villages are still new or are in the process of growing beyond their historical size as King Tyrell hopes to expand and consolidate Agercort's power.

The many rural communities and townships of Agercort are often agricultural communities, tilling the surrounding fields. Unlike the other kingdoms, there is no connection to the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Reden|Reden]] within its borders so all trade must be done by caravan. As such, much of what Agercort needs is produced internally and while they are capable to producing adequate foods they are somewhat lacking in mineral resources leading to higher costs for metal tools, weapons, and armours. There are many small ponds and creeks in the area, so careful irrigation allows most of the otherwise fertile land to be worked productively. The kingdom's primary export is fruits, with many orchards producing high quality fruits such as apples and pears which are often difficult to cultivate elsewhere.

The history of Agercort is one of liberation, as most of their historic motivations beyond their small kingdom revolve around the emancipation of others either from slavery or exploitation. While the nobility of Agercort may initially appear to subscribe to the oligarchic patterns of the other kingdoms, most nobility in the region are actually "new money". Very few families actually have a historical claim to aristocracy, most are only one or two generations who have lived in such wealth, with many returning to the lower classes when their income dries up. As such, many outsiders can be drawn by a sense of opportunity and that anyone can attain the lifestyle of the nobility in Agercort, provided they have the economic and/or diplomatic capacity to get their by their own efforts.

## Joytham
The capital of Agercort, built around the great Sterling Castle where [[Culture/Important People#King Tyrell of Agercort|King Tyrell]] and all his predecessors have lived. In what was once the centre of Agercort, Joytham is the largest city in the kingdom at almost 14,500 people living in the immediate town surrounding the castle. Historically, the Sterling Castle was once the site of just the manor of the local lord who was overthrown by his serfs, leading to the revolts that founded what would become Agercort. Other rebels came to gather there for safety in numbers, reinforcing the farmsteads and the manor. Over time it became the centre of Agercort and more people settled there, and eventually Sterling Castle was built. All of this happened centuries before the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War|Scarlett War]].

In modern times, Joytham is almost completely recovered from the War. For some time there were houses and shopfronts that lay vacant, but as more have immigrated to the city the town is finally looking to build and expand once more. Cobblestone streets spread out in all directions from the grand market square just outside the castle entrance. Workshops and stores of stone and plaster line the central streets, eventually giving way to wood and thatch cottages and the fields surrounding the town in all directions.

## Miellway
The second largest town in Agercort at approximately 5,800 people, Miellway's most defining feature is the grand Church to [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Panismé|Panismé]], with great stained windows depicting the goddess and her life. The fields surrounding the entire town are also a small spectacle of their own as the orchards their are scattered with dozens of different kinds of wildflower. Supposedly a blessing of their patron goddess, the flowers are a great boon to the town. They allow the production of highly sought after honey and beeswax. as well as supporting a thriving cottage industry of apothecaries.

## Calbend
A decent community of about 2,300 people has established itself on the southern border of Agercort, where a small river leaving the [[Geography/Natural/Forests#Black Forest|Black Forest]] makes its way into the kingdom. Not only does this water supply help sustain agriculture in the area, this point has become the primary point of egress into the Black Forest. Indeed there are a number of woodsman in town who dare to walk the forest paths and can even aid those seeking passage in themselves. Of course the primary goal of many attempting to enter the Black Forest is to either seek of the Moonlit Court or for admission into the [[Culture/Factions/College of Night|College of Night]]. For this reason the small town of Calbend ends up having an unusually high residence of various wizards and witches either living there to accommodate such travellers or who are travelling themselves.
