---
title: "Cruworia"
---
Sitting along the southern coast of the continent, a land of warm fields and sunlit woods, is the kingdom of Cruworia. The historical home of the [[Culture/Mortal Races/Orc|orcs]], Cruworia has a long proud history drenched in blood. Often proclaimed as the most powerful army to ever walk the land, the Crusaders of Cruworia were renowned throughout the [Scarlett War](Culture/History/Scarlett%20War.md) for their cruel and merciless brutality. Even now, generations after the ratification of the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War#The Burgundy Treatise|Burgundy Treatise]], the military might of Cruworia is unwavering and at the ready. The many towns and hamlets of the kingdom are connected by regularly patrolled roads to ensure safety and piety are maintained across the region. Despite the fact that Cruworia is held firmly in the grasp of both militaristic and religious might, they are also incredibly bountiful as a kingdom.

Many of the towns and villages in the south maintain large fields of wheat and corn, as well as the famous vineyards from which Cruworia's wine is produced. Meanwhile in the north, hunters and foragers of the [[Geography/Natural/Forests#Grey Forest|Grey Forest]] supplement the more restricted vegetable farms of the more irregular terrain. Even in terms of metals, Cruworia has a small number of rich iron and copper along the northern border. With little in the way of need, Cruworia imports little, something which aligns well with their nationalistic culture. They do export a large amount of food and other refined goods, producing even more wealth for their already rich nation.

The entire country is led by [[Culture/Important People#King Edric of Cruworia|King Edric]], who rules just as his mother before him, and her uncle before her. It is rare for the monarch to be of the same family for multiple consecutive generations, as each new monarch is chosen by the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia#Church of the Rose|Church of the Rose]] for their valour, piety, and wisdom. The entire kingdom is effectively a theocracy, run by the Church of the Rose, with King Edric effectively a servant of the Church as a whole. The orcs of Cruworia are largely devout followers of the Church, who make up a large part of peoples' lives both spiritually and practically.

## Ayndral
One of the largest cities on the continent, Ayndral is the capital of Cruworia and the seat of power for the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia#Church of the Rose|Church of the Rose]]. With over 21,000 people, the city is a dense cluster of stone structures within the thick heavy walls, with even more wooden expansions sprawling out in every direction beyond them. In the centre of the city is the Grand Cathedral of Tenesia, a marvel in architecture with no expense spared, it rivals even the ancient palaces in [Mallerand](Geography/Mallerand.md). It is fed by the tithes collected from the many surrounding agricultural communities, and is home to hundreds of artisans and workshops effectively owned by the Church. Within the walls of Ayndral the will of the Church is absolute, and crusaders are on almost every corner throughout town.

## Kuramise
Once just a border fort, Kuramise has grown to a massive city of approximately 14,500 residents. Sitting on the banks of the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Ilma|Ilma]] within the [[Geography/Natural/Forests#Grey Forest|Grey Forest]], the fort initially grew after rich iron deposits were discovered nearby and excavation soon followed. Kuramise now has smithies working around the clock to ensure the flow of iron remains steady, producing a large portion of Cruworia's armaments. Once the [Scarlett War](Culture/History/Scarlett%20War.md) began the settlement only continued to grow. It was both a key defensive position and a key economic position, and so was heavily invested into. It became the main thoroughfare from Cruworia to the [Weald](Geography/Weald/Weald.md) in general, first for crusader armies and in modern times for any travellers or traders seeking passage across the border.

## Hamsia
The centre of the agricultural region in the south of Cruworia, Hamsia sits at a steady populace of about 7,500 people, most of whom are either farmers or caravaners. While many of the smaller farming villages send their produce to the marketplaces in Hamsia to be further sent throughout Cruworia, the true wealth of the town comes from the local vineyards. Owned by the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia#Church of the Rose|Church of the Rose]], many of the fields around Hamsia are prized vineyards from which the grapes are turned into famous red wine. Not only is this wine commonplace throughout Cruworia, but it is a highly sought commodity beyond the borders - to the point that some attempt to smuggle it out of the kingdom.

## Attemil
Another major point of passage across the border, Attemil is an old outpost community along the main land route to [Port Manteaux](Geography/Port%20Manteaux.md). With around 3,000 residents, the town was heavily reinforced during the [Scarlett War](Culture/History/Scarlett%20War.md) as it was the most direct route towards [[Geography/Cruworia#Ayndral|Ayndral]]. The heavily defended town now acts mostly as a trade post, carefully monitoring and taxing any imports or exports on the way to the capital.

## Semabar
A small but old town of 1,400 people built where the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Ilma|Ilma]] ends at the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Kaskate Falls|Kaskate Falls]]. The place holds some spiritual significance as some claim it is an entrance to the underworld. There is a shrine to a nameless saint built by the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia#Church of the Rose|Church of the Rose]], it is said his devotion to [Tenesia](Mythos/The%20Mortal%20Gods/Tenesia.md) was so great that he threw himself over the falls upon her request.

<u>The Nameless Saint</u>
The story goes that in the early days of the orcs, Tenesia agreed that if the nameless saint obeyed all her requests she would end the curse placed upon them. When he went to jump off the falls he hesitated momentarily, and so a number of the anxious onlookers pushed him off before he could jump of his own will. Tenesia scorned them, claiming she had seen in the man's heart and he would have jumped by himself, but their faithlessness revealed the true nature of orcs and so they would remain cursed.
