---
title: "Mallerand"
---
From the highest mountain peaks of the continent, down the the foothills on the edge of the [Weald](Geography/Weald/Weald.md), Mallerand is a kingdom of stone and wind. The region seems relatively inhospitable at first, but the many [[Culture/Mortal Races/Dwarf|dwarves]] and [[Culture/Mortal Races/Gnome|gnomes]] who live there have learned how to work the land both above and below the surface for not just survival but success. Linked together by a network of mountainside roads and bridges, the many settlements of Mallerand occupy the few suitable locations for construction and production with many small hamlets and shepherd huts scattered between, and it is sometimes many days travel between signs of civilization. The sites that have been settled are often heavily developed and defended after centuries of habitation.

At first it may appear that the lowland villages produce the majority of the crops for the cities in the mountains, and during the [Scarlett War](Culture/History/Scarlett%20War.md) the other kingdoms would often try to occupy the lowlands in the hopes of starving out the great fortified cities. Those who have spent time in the mountains however know that much food is also grown locally, with the populace using clever engineering and every spare foot of space to maximal productivity. Resilient herbs and greenery often fill random cracks and nooks alongside the roads and buildings, while larger spaces hold patches of various root vegetables.

The most profitable output of Mallerand however is their mining. While other kingdoms do indeed have their own sources of key minerals like copper and iron, no kingdom is as metal rich as Mallerand due to both plentiful deposits and expert extraction and refinement techniques. Additionally, Mallerand is the major producer of precious stones such as diamonds and other gems highly sought after not just for their beauty but also for their arcane and alchemical properties. Mallerand forges often work around the clock, never cooling to ensure that their metals remain strong and sturdy.

Overseeing the various towns and provinces of Mallerand is [[Culture/Important People#King Ognan of Mallerand|King Ognan]], from the palace in [[Geography/Mallerand#Arx Saxum|Arx Saxum]]. He is the sixty-third to sit on the throne, the ruler of Mallerand passing down from parent to child each generation. According to dwarven custom, the heir to the throne ascends to the throne upon the previous monarch's death, or upon having a legitimate heir at which point the prior monarch steps down for their child and usually takes on the role of an advisor. Each town or village has a baron who oversees that province and reports to the monarch (of course the barons of many smaller provinces rarely see the monarch, and the barons of the larger towns typically have a small court of their own to delegate to). While Mallerand is a kingdom of longstanding wealth and progress, they are also often mired in tradition. This can cause great frustration to foreigners unfamiliar with the bureaucracy embedded into the whole culture, and it is often extremely difficult to get the natives to bend their ways. It is not that the people of Mallerand are resistant to change, if they determine a way to improve or enhance something they will readily accept such advancements. The difficulty arises from the idea that there is one way to do something - if a better way is identified, then that becomes the way to do that thing. They struggle to accept the idea of exceptions, or bending the rules, very much believing that if a means is truly best then it is best for everyone.

## Arx Saxum
Sitting at the heart of Mallerand deep within the mountains is the ancient capital of [[Geography/Mallerand/Arx Saxum|Arx Saxum]]. Carved from the stone itself, and built up with what was cut out, the entire city is a genuine marvel of engineering and architecture. In truth, its construction may even be beyond the capabilities of the modern civil engineers of Mallerand as it has stood, according to records, for over 1,000 years. Now home to over 15,000, the city has begun to reach it's capacity as older sections are being restored and repurposed into new temporary residences for both newcomers and old blood alike.

It is often claimed that Arx Saxum is the most secure place on the continent, with the [[Geography/Mallerand/Arx Saxum#Vaults of Sasellum|Vaults of Sasellum]] lying beneath the royal palace. Contained within lie not only treasure rooms of the vast wealth of the royal family of Mallerand, but also their prized records supposedly containing the most complete collection of literature and history to ever exist. Other sanctums and hidden tunnels are said to burrow into the mountains beneath the city, lost to time.

## Ed Fadina
Second largest city within Mallerand, Ed Fadina is often considered the kingdom's centre of commerce and innovation. It was built around the Welvart mines, first begun when gold was discovered in the area, it has since expanded into a network of tunnels and shafts going miles. The city now produces not just gold, but all matter of precious minerals and stones which are cut, polished, set, and shipped across the continent. The constant influx of wealth has led to now 7,500 people living there to a degree of decadence rivalled only by Port Manteaux. The town often swells with travellers and tourists every year during the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Panismé#The Festival of Colours|Festival of Colours]], where the entire city parties for days on end.

## Klofina
One of the main points of entrance into Mallerand, for those not willing to trek the mountain paths they will typically pass through where Klofina overlooks the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Reden|Reden]]. An unusual geography, the Reden has carved a path through the mountains to create the canyon which Klofina straddles, built on either side, into the walls, and with dozens of bridges spanning across. Steep stairs zigzag down to the water's edge far below where ships can move people and cargo before either heading back downstream or forging upstream deeper into Mallerand. Home to 4,500 people, the unusual sight of the bisected town is often the first real look at Mallerand that many foreigners see, and so it's fantastical sights are frequently embellished when retold later.

## Topmundi
A community of people has built up around a much older monastery, becoming the town of Topmundi. Just over 1,800 people now live at the high mountain origins of the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Reden|Reden]] river, the waters bubbling up from a shallow calm spring before heading down river as a small stream. This stream builds as others connect and rainwaters swell, eventually becoming the full river itself. There are followers of [Lingzul](Mythos/The%20Mortal%20Gods/Lingzul.md) who make the long pilgrimage to Topmundi, believing the place to be of spiritual significance. The original monastery, while not dedicated to Lingzul, proposed the same - that this spring that fed the Reden is in fact the origins of all water in the world and as such it must be protected and maintained. The town is little more than an extended village of mountain huts and farmsteads around the original stone monastery complex.