---
title: "Port Manteaux"
---
The largest metropolis on the continent, at over 23,000 residents, traders, mercenaries, dignitaries, every walk of life is represented in the great city of Port Manteaux. Loyal to none of the kingdoms, Port Manteaux is ruled instead by their own [[Geography/Port Manteaux#The Corsair Court|Coursair Court]] - although it has representatives of the four kingdoms present for both diplomatic and economic agreements. It is said that long before the [Scarlett War](Culture/History/Scarlett%20War.md), the pirates beset up and down both the coast and the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Reden|Reden]], even in some cases up the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Kulte|Kulte]] as far as [[Geography/Vurnam#Gerting|Gerting]]. With no allegiance to anyone or each other, it was each ship for itself. Over time of course, those who were more successful began to acquire small flotillas of such ships, enough that even armed escorts began to be insufficient to prevent piracy. Both [Vurnam](Geography/Vurnam.md) and [Cruworia](Geography/Cruworia.md) began to tire of this, and soon construction of naval fleets began in an effort to rid themselves of the pirates completely. Realising they would fall alone, the pirates instead banded together in a bloody conflict lasting years, with the kingdoms taking heavy losses. Eventually, a concession was proposed, ships passing through pirate territory would be taxed for 'protection' and be let pass in peace. The kingdoms begrudgingly agreed. With newfound legitimacy and wealth, the pirates began to establish a presence on the mainland at what would become Port Manteaux.

Throughout the Scarlett War, Port Manteaux remained neutral territory, and indeed grew even wealthier by offering their services as privateers. Now the kingdoms outright paid the pirates to raid and attack each other - and many who saw the war as futile or who fled or turned coat eventually found themselves in the growing Port Manteaux where all kinds were welcome, provided they had coin. Following the ratification of the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War#The Burgundy Treatise|Burgundy Treatise]], Port Manteaux once again found itself wealthier than it started and now also with a diverse populace from across the continent with diverse skills. If you wished to hire someone for a task, you could find someone in Port Manteaux, you need only have sufficient coin. In modern times, the city is a melting pot of refugees and renegades, and all the kingdoms are forced to acknowledge them as a force to be reckoned with.

Port Manteaux itself is a large port city that sits where the Reden meets the ocean. Surrounded by mangrove delta, the foundations of the city have been built up over generations with compact sand and rubble. Both an inner and outer stone wall ring the city, and five great watchtowers stand in the harbour to protect against naval attacks. With buildings made of a hodgepodge of cobblestone, adobe, and mangrove wood, the city lacks the sophisticated looks of other grand cities. Built with little experience or planning, the streets are a warren of tangled paths between the haphazard buildings and it is not uncommon for travellers to become lost. Even those who can keep on path can take hours to cross the whole city given its sprawling size. While fish from the harbour offer a reliable food source, many surrounding mangrove villages also sell their produce at the markets in town.

## The Corsair Court
Unlike the monarchies of the four kingdoms, the people of Port Manteaux are ruled by an odd sort of rotating oligarchy. There are seven pirate 'families' who made up the original founders of Port Manteaux, and those families rule the city still. Pirates are not the ruling sort, and typically don't want to settle down enough to rule a city, but they also don't want their competitor doing it either. And so a single family governs the city at a time and every year, after the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Panismé#The Festival of Colours|Festival of Colours]], they rotate to the next family in order. While ruling, that family may not engage in acts of piracy themselves, preventing them from blatantly favouring themselves. As every family ends up with a year out of every seven, it is also not typically a good idea to screw over anyone in particular either as you will eventually get your comeuppance. The system largely works, although the families are always entangled in deals with each other to try and influence things in their favour. Many who live in the city actually prefer the changing faces of their rulers rather than being stuck with the one monarch for decades at a time.