---
title: "Vurnam"
---
Occupying more land than any other of the kingdoms, Vurnam stretches from its borders with [Mallerand](Geography/Mallerand.md) in the west all the way to the shores in the east, encompassing the entire length of the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Kulte|Kulte]] river. The majority of Vurnam is sparse shrublands and prairies, with little in the way of much else. The inhabitants of the region are mostly in the form of close-knit homesteads and hamlets, although some larger settlements do exist. The people of Vurnam are not as unified as many of the other kingdoms, instead choosing to divide themselves into many different tribes. [[Culture/Important People#Queen Rogarka of Vurnam|Queen Rogarka]] does rule all of Vurnam in name, but unless she can be bothered to show up on someone's doorstep with her royal army in tow, most of the time the tribes ignore her and simply do their own thing. This is not to say that there is nothing in common amongst the tribes. Worship of [Lingzul](Mythos/The%20Mortal%20Gods/Lingzul.md), and a general respect for the natural order, is ubiquitous across the tribes, as is a deep sense of familial duty. While they may not be particularly loyal to their queen, they are fiercely loyal to their close kin - indeed many immigrants can find themselves isolated or even ostracised as a result of these tight community bonds.

Most work done in Vurnam is for subsistence, either farming or ranching the steppes and shrubland. Most people are relatively poor compared to other places, but the culture of Vurnam also does not put much merit into material wealth. People believe they should be content with regular food, a roof over their head, and honest work. There is a large cultural shame for those who do not work. While concessions are given for the sick, elderly, or infirm, even they tend to take on light tasks rather than completely retire. The major exports of the kingdom, used as trade goods to acquire products not easily produced locally, are in the form of copper (which the kingdom is relatively rich in) and livestock goods such as leather and wool. Much of the highest quality leather goods such as armour and banding actually comes from Vurnam. 
## Gerting
The capital of Vurnam, and seat of [[Culture/Important People#Queen Rogarka of Vurnam|Queen Rogarka's]] court, Gerting is the largest city in the north. Home to over 20,000 people, it is a sprawling mass of adobe and thatch on the banks of the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Kulte|Kulte]]. It is here in Gerting that the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Lingzul#The Zirbaum|Zirbaum]] stands, an important spiritual site for the people of Vurnam and for the followers of [Lingzul](Mythos/The%20Mortal%20Gods/Lingzul.md).
## Baisen
Second largest settlement in Vurnam at approximately 12,000 people, and the only major city not to fall along the river [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Kulte|Kulte]], Baisen sits on the shores of the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Sang|Sang]], a particularly large natural spring. While the ready supply of water so far from the Kulte is one of the reasons why Baisen has become such a large settlement, the other reason is the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Drytog#God's Rock|God's Rock]], a large white monolith which has drawn the attention of mystics from across the continent since before even the [Scarlett War](Culture/History/Scarlett%20War.md).
## Flucha
Sitting on the fork between the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Reden|Reden]] and the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Kulte|Kulte]], Flucha is home to approximately 4,800 residents, although its prominence as a trade hub means there are often times many more people within its walls. The most cosmopolitan of the towns of Vurnam, Flucha has many buildings of stone and brick in addition to the more traditional architectural styles. The constant flux of merchants and travellers from the other kingdoms and across the [Weald](Geography/Weald/Weald.md) have caused the inhabitants to become much more diverse than many elsewhere in Vurnam - sometimes to their own detriment. It is not uncommon for natives elsewhere in Vurnam to speak of Flucha as a town of heathens and upstarts with no respect for the ways of Vurnam.
## Rotewan
The only real port settlement in Vurnam, Rotewan is a town of about 1,400 people sitting where the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Kulte|Kulte]] meets the ocean. Any barges heading upriver to [[Geography/Vurnam#Gerting|Gerting]] or beyond, or ships heading out to travel south along the shore pass through Rotewan. Living on the coast has given the people of Rotewan a different set of priorities compared to many elsewhere in Vurnam. They are not ranchers or farmers, they care little for harsh winters or poachers. There is only one thing that concerns Rotewan - pirates. An ever constant scourge, the people of Rotewan have made countless appeals to [[Culture/Important People#Queen Rogarka of Vurnam|Queen Rogarka]], to the [[Geography/Port Manteaux#The Corsair Court|Corsair Court]], all falling on deaf ears. It has led the people here to become somewhat callous when it comes to the trials and tribulations of others.