Elementals are manifestations of raw primal energies, native to the various realms of [[Mythos/Realms/Primordium|Primordium]]. Unlike the creatures of the [[Mythos/Realms/Material Realm|Material Realm]], elementals are typically singular in their nature, often resulting in commonalities in personality and worldview between elementals of the same element. They can pass into the Material Realm either when conjured forth by primal magic, or in places within the Material Realm where a singular element is particularly concentrated and/or empowered. They typically don't have strong opinions on the mortal races or a desire to interact with them, unless they have been offended or attacked - although their definitions of what constitutes such much vary.

## Air
Spirits of air are often flighty, forgetful, and chatty. Aspects of communication and movement, that travel with the winds and clouds that meander across the continent. Difficult to contain or track, they resent any kind of attachment or responsibility and will simply leave if they are feeling caged in. This doesn't just apply to physical constraints, most see little point in remembering the past including any conversations or agreements they engaged in.
## Earth
Spirits of earth are stoic, protective, and jealous. Unyielding and ageless, they can sometimes be oblivious to the world changing around them. They have a tendency to be fiercely protective or defensive of the people or places which have managed to draw their attention, even deepening into overprotective jealousy and greed to keep what they deem to be theirs.
## Fire
Spirits of fire are violent, chaotic, and vain. Catalysts of change, they destroy and transform the world around them whether they are wanted or not. Unpredictable and impulsive, they can be bringers of ruin or harbingers of new beginnings. It is often considered best to flatter and appease them, thanking them even if they seem to bring destruction lest they be angered into raining down true devastation.
## Metal
Spirits of metal are manipulative, toxic, and adaptive. Ever-shifting and recalculating their next moves, metal spirits should be treated carefully to ensure that you are not being taken advantage of. Not only do such spirits have a tendency to corrupt or corrode those which they come into contact with, they also transmute themselves in turn, often augmenting or adding to their capabilities in response to new environments and threats.
## Water
Spirits of water are unreadable, ominous, and wise. Alien in both appearance and behaviour, many water spirits are much different or more powerful than they initially present themselves, and woe is the fool who underestimates a water spirit. While it is difficult to pull anything of worth from water, it can hold many hidden secrets and treasures.
## Wood
Spirits of wood are intuitive, tireless, and social. Often myriad or collective in nature, they seek communion with others in order to better understand and interact with those around them. This community based way of thinking however often leads to a lack of individualism, sometimes making it difficult for them to understand the motivations or emotions of mortals. They seek growth and prosperity for all, avoiding direct destructive conflict unless absolutely necessary.