A profane trinity abhorred by most civilized peoples, in most places people will hesitate to even name any of the Three Terrors out loud, referring to them instead as just "the Three". In [Agercort](Geography/Agercort.md) and [Cruworia](Geography/Cruworia.md) they even go so far as to not speak of them at all, instead signifying them by placing the first three fingers over one's closed lips. These superstitions stem from the belief that just speaking their names out loud draws their attention, and that is typically to be avoided at all costs.

The trio of sisters are Atya, Kakova, and Dyphora. Said to be the embodiment of bad things, they are supposedly older than even the gods. Atya represents misfortune, the events of bad luck and ill omens. Her misfortunes are not deliberate, it is believed that wherever she treads only the worst possible outcomes occur. Kakova represents malice, the wickedness of vile intent, she is said to be the evil voice that whispers in the ear, corrupting people and turning them to sin. Dyphora is often considered the worst, and least understood. She represents malaise, a fundamental flaw in the universal design, she isn't even evil she is just *wrong*, her mere presence twists and distorts the world around her.

While not technically illegal (with the exception of [Cruworia](Geography/Cruworia.md), under command of the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia#Church of the Rose|Church of the Rose]]), active reverence or even invocation of the Three Terrors is heavily reviled and people caught in such acts are often exiled or executed by mob justice. Only the most vile and corrupt of witches and warlocks seek the powers of the Three Terrors, although such individuals almost always end up succumbing to terrible fates themselves.

Of those rumoured to actively seek interaction with the Three Terrors, there are two of particular note. [[Culture/Mortal Races/Goblin|Goblins]] are sometimes claimed to be followers of the Three Terrors, a reputation that is largely founded on ignorance and prejudice. While there are some goblin shamans who seek the perverted powers of the Three (as there are amongst all the races), most goblins share the rest of the continent's general distaste for such individuals and drive them out of their communities. The second notable accused is [Sophia Pistis](Culture/People/Sophia%20Pistis.md), an extremely powerful wizard with many enemies, some of whom claim that she created the Three Terrors, hence one of her many epithets [[Culture/People/Sophia Pistis#Mother of Three Terrors|Mother of Three Terrors]]. Again, there is no proof of claims that she engages with the Three Terrors, and certainly no proof that she created them.
## Atya, Terror of Misfortune

## Kakova, Terror of Malice
## Dyphora, Terror of Malaise
