The most prolific form of chaotic evil, demons are said to be a manifestation of mortal sin. While the gods espouse how to best live life, sins are the result of living otherwise. This emotional and spiritual energy, when potent enough, can coalesce into discrete demons. Most demons will then endeavour to coax more mortals into sin, either through conscious design or instinct - it is unclear which. As a result, demons can feed off these energies and grow stronger as well as allow for more demons to arise. It is possible to "starve" a demon to non-existence by denying it access to mortal sins, but by the time a demon has become potent enough it is likely easier to banish or exorcise it than wait long enough for it to starve. Their nature seems to allow demons an easier ability to pass from [[Mythos/Realms/Infernum|Infernum]] to the [[Mythos/Realms/Material Realm|Material Realm]], spawned directly from the energies diffusing from the latter to coalesce on the former, they can often follow these trails of sin back to the place or person who spawned them.

While there is a potentially infinite range of sin, clerics and diabolists have drawn eight clear categories which most demons seem to group under.

## Gluttony
The sin of gluttony refers to overconsumption, as well as the consumption of forbidden or tainted fruits. The sin of gluttony is in contrast to the mainstream tenets of [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Panismé|Panismé]], there is no appreciation in gluttony, it comes not from desiring the fullness and pleasure of consumption, but from the emptiness and feeling of insatiable hunger. One of the greatest sins of gluttony is cannibalism, and indeed many vampires and other undead are often associated with gluttony demons.
## Lust
The sin of lust refers to destructive desires and obsessions. In respects to this sin, there are those among [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Panismé|Panismé's]] flock who dismiss it's classification as a sin, particularly those who pay homage to the muse [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Panismé#Vermeille, Muse of Passion|Vermeille]]. However many recognise the destructive nature of lust, unhealthy obsessions that drive individuals to extreme lengths or to abandon other important parts of their life. Often those who are addicted to various drugs or other habits will spawn or attract lust demons.
## Envy
The sin of envy refers to hurting others in order to either benefit oneself or out of jealousy. Envy is always destructive, it always aims to tear down others rather than to improve oneself, a complete contradiction of many of divine philosophies such as those of [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia|Tenesia]] or even [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Jirem|Jirem]]. It is often said that the pleasure one derives from envy is short-lived, and that those filled with envy hate themselves the most. One of the most potent forms of envy is to betray or sabotage a close friend or loved one.
## Despair
The sin of despair refers to chronic pessimism and fatalism, the idea that everyone and everything is stupid, and wrong, and never going to get any better so what's the point of ever trying. Such sinners are often not content to wallow in their own unhappiness, they insist upon spreading their defeatism to others. Those who hold positions of power or influence and use it to encourage either doom saying or apathy lead to great bouts of despair in communities can cause a great deal of despair demons to gather.
## Wrath
The sin of wrath refers to reckless anger and violent hatred, those who kill and maim as their first call of recourse. While there are many who may be prone to short tempers and rough housing, true potent wrath refers to deep seated violent hatred, often in the form of bigotry or vengeance. Wrath demons will often try to sustain never ending cycles of revenge between warring factions, often targeting the most vulnerable members such as children or the injured for the recipients of their violence.
## Sloth
The sin of sloth refers to apathy and laziness, but also to the shirking of duty and fudgellers. They are not only unwilling to do much work or exert much effort, but often rely on or force others to pick up their slack. Those who cause others anguish or difficulty through the consequences of their inaction, laziness, or procrastination are the most likely to attract not only sloth demons, but often times other demons as well. One of the worse forms of sloth is considered to be the taking of short cuts or engaging in negligence that results in great expense for others.
## Pride
The sin of pride refers to a sense of inflated self worth and an unwillingness to heed the cries of others. Those who suffer the sin of pride often feel a compelling need to be above other people, to be seen as more important. They will often try and install themselves as leaders or experts, and may even hurt themselves to spite others. One of the greatest sins of pride is often considered to be slavery, although in some places where slavery is more common they will claim that you must just treat slaves "fairly" and not needlessly torture or punish them. Some of the most powerful pride demons have spawned from the reigns of warlords and unfit monarchs.
## Vanity
The sin of vanity refers to those who are shallow and selfish, concerned only with aesthetics and nothing of true substance or meaning. Often found amongst those of the upper class, or those aspiring to rise to the upper class, vanity is more than valuing beauty, it is about crafting often false or deceitful appearances. It is placing more value on appearing to be good than on actually being good. Unlike many of the other sins, vanity demons are more often found amongst the devout and pure, as not all of them are as sinless as they would have the world believe.