The origins of devilkind still elude mortal scholars, but the nature of their existence is relatively well documented. Of all fiends, devils are the most likely to interact with mortals and have the mortal still be alive at the end of the exchange, meaning that many wizards and esoteric scholars have managed to garner quite a bit of information about the various forms and functions of devils. Unlike [[Mythos/Fiends/Demons|demons]] and [[Mythos/Fiends/Daemons|daemons]], devils do not seem to universally seek the death of all mortals - instead it seems they would rather ensnare and enslave them for purposes not entirely clear. Perhaps they just gain perverse pleasure from lording over what they view as lesser beings, but many suspect there is a greater plan at work that has yet to be uncovered. Most devils when conjured forth are often done so with the goal of making some sort of exchange. In return for allowing them passage to the [[Mythos/Realms/Material Realm|Material Realm]], as well as often a promise of future services or favours, a devil will use their supernatural abilities to comply with a request. Given the nature of their abilities, they are largely suited for fulfilling more unsavoury requests, but there are accounts of devils "doing good" at the request of the conjurer.

From what has been gleaned from various accounts of devil summoning, it seems that they naturally reside within a region of [[Mythos/Realms/Infernum|Infernum]] referred to as [[Mythos/Realms/Infernum#Avosys|Avosys]], or the Burning Pit. Within the Pit devilkind exists in some mockery of society, with an internal power hierarchy which devils seem desperate to navigate. For all their power, devils are bound by their word - their entire society is structured around complex pseudo-legal agreements and scriptures which all seem innately bound to comply with. Throughout history a number of archdevils have been identified - devils of immense power, who also appear to be near the peak of the infernal power structure, although even they do not appear to be the pinnacle of power.