Native to the mountains of [[Geography/Mallerand|Mallerand]], dwarves are typically stout and stocky individuals able to tolerate the cold and harsh conditions of both the mountain paths and the deep reaching caverns below them. Many dwarves do live a long life, often over a century, especially those who live within the great bastion cities sheltered from the harsh environments outside them. As a culture, dwarves place great value on stability and consistency, trusting in the tried and true traditions of their forbears. While dwarf society has clear structure and hierarchy, even the lower classes are still well respected. There is just as much value in being an honest miner or a [[Culture/Crops and Agriculture#Swedeleaf|swedeleaf]] farmer as there is in being a blacksmith or cleric.
## Culture
Dwarven culture is incredibly conservative and traditionalist, much of their knowledge, beliefs, and daily practices are passed down from generation to generation. To question the way things are done is not very common amongst dwarven communities, if things are done a certain way there must have been a good reason to do it that way in the first place. Some outsiders interpret dwarven traditionalism to mean that they are stubborn and unyielding in the face of progress, but if that were true they would not have produced some of the most accomplished engineers and scholars on the continent. The only things needed to change a dwarf's mind on tradition are evidence and reason. If a better way can be convincingly demonstrated, then of course they will adopt this better practice - although it sometimes can be tiresome for outsiders to demonstrate sufficient evidence for a dwarf's rigorous standards. In truth many of the great leaps made in Mallerand society were initially sparked by [[Culture/Mortal Races/Gnome|gnomish]] experimentation, but this novel ideas then spend generations being refined and perfected by dwarven rigor. Most dwarves take great pride in their heritage, seeing themselves as one link in an unbreaking chain stretching back through the generations, each dwarf filling an important role in the greater system of dwarven society. Their nature leads most dwarves to worship either [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Ambrax|Ambrax]], [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Drytog|Drytog]] or [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Zeva|Zeva]], gods who reinforce their cultural identities as custodians of their ancestral knowledge.

