Naturally limber and quick, many artists throughout history have likened elves to the beasts with which they share the plains of [[Geography/Vurnam|Vurnam]]. While there are some elven sages who live for a long time, it is still somewhat unclear how long an elf can live for as the vast majority tend to perish after only a couple of decades. Most elves who have remained in their homeland live lives fraught with daily dangers, from bandits and wild predators, to disease and poisons, to simply dying of starvation or exposure. Such things are accepted realities of most in Vurnam, where most live in accordance with cultural traditions rather than going to any great lengths to mitigate such dangers. That being said, prior to the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War|Scarlett War]] the elves of Vurnam were plentiful but after generations of warfare many of the plains are empty of those who once roamed them.
## Culture
Much of elven culture is the product of the philosophies of [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Lingzul|Lingzul]], who is still heavily venerated throughout Vurnam. Most elven communities throughout Vurnam are small groups of only a few families, often travelling nomadically across the scrublands of the north. Many actively avoid leaving any permanent marks of their presence, meaning that most settlements or encampments are made entirely of temporary structures built from light wooden frames and animal hides or woven fabrics. These groups are often very close knit and rarely interact with outsiders if they can help it, roaming their own stretches of the countryside as they see fit. Blood is seen as binding to these traditionalist elves, and one's only allegiance is to family. It takes a great deal to get various groups of elves to unite over a single cause, and many outsiders question the validity of the elven monarchs. The Scarlett War however showed the power of the elven tribes should they be united under a single banner, although it is unclear if such a force could be rallied again. Most who visit Vurnam will rarely leave the shores of the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Kulte|Kulte]] where some tribes have erected more permanent settlements, setting up agriculture and trade. While tribal traditionalists often scorn these elves, it has not stopped such elven settlements from growing as they endeavour to find a more progressive way forward while still respecting the beliefs of their past. It is rare to find an elf who does not show at least some reverence for [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Lingzul|Lingzul]], but there are also many within Vurnam who either publicly or privately venerate the teachings of [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Jirem|Jirem]] as well.
