A small race of folk said to be descended from the fae, gnomes come in a spectrum of vibrant colours well beyond what is seen in the other mortal races. Telling a gnome's age is a sometimes difficult feat, as after they have physically matured beyond a standard childhood they don't age any further. Just like [[Culture/Mortal Races/Elf|elves]], there doesn't appear to be an upper limit on how old a gnome can be, but it is still rare for one to live much more than a century. As a gnome nears the end of their life span they undergo a process referred to as "[[Culture/Mortal Races/Gnome#Bleaching|bleaching]]" in which they begin to lose all pigmentation, dying upon becoming completely white.
## Culture
The highest concentrations of gnomes can be found in the lowlands from where they first came, but a great deal also live within the mountain cities and villages of [[Geography/Mallerand|Mallerand]]. They have also spread a great deal throughout the [[Geography/Weald/Weald|Weald]], and it is not uncommon for them to be seen at any point along the [[[Geography/Rivers#Reden|Reden]]. Often seen by others as somewhat unserious or childish, gnomes tend to have an innate curiosity about the world around them. Many cannot help themselves but to push boundaries, to take things apart to see how they work, to mix new things together just to see what happens. As such many discoveries in the fields of alchemy, the arcane, and engineering have come from gnomish experimentation - as have many catastrophes. Many gnomes tend to gravitate towards a particular fixation, although the subject of their interest may wander over the years. While others may grow frustrated with the consequences of a gnome's reckless experimentation, most gnomes themselves are rarely bothered by the actions of others unless they directly harm or hinder themselves. As far as the gods go, gnomes are mostly found to follow [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Ambrax|Ambrax]] or [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Panismé|Panismé]], and while proportionally fewer gnomes do worship [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Vorvado|Vorvado]] most of the Empty God's followers are gnomes.
## Joining Mallerand
For most of their history, the gnomes have been considered part of the same cultural group as [[Culture/Mortal Races/Dwarf|dwarves]] that became modern [[Geography/Mallerand|Mallerand]]. Prior to this they lived in the lowlands between the mountains of Mallerand and the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Sullen Swamp|Sullen Swamp]] in scattered small villages, often in conjunction with local [[Beastiary/Leshy|leshy]] and other fae. Following the events of the [[Culture/History/Dragondeath|Dragondeath]] and the beginning of the Age of Mortals, many of the dwarves in Mallerand suffered greatly from famine and disease. The gnomes of the lowlands not only offered their aid to the dwarves, but were able to help them invent new means of agriculture and medicine to prevent such tragedies from recurring. In turn, the gnomes were brought into the great stone citadels of Mallerand and given access to the resources and knowledge that had been accumulated there. As time passed, the two groups mostly merged, the gnomes' natural gifts for creativity and agriculture complementing the dwarves' ability to enact and refine on a grand scale.
## Bleaching
A process unique to gnomes, seeming to act as a parallel to the typical signs of aging in the other mortal races. Gnomish children mature at about the same rate as the children of other races, but upon reaching maturity they can remain remarkably unchanged for decades. In the final few years of their life, a number of changes begin to occur, largely to do with the loss of their unique pigmentation. Often beginning with the hair or the extremities of the limbs, the characteristic vibrant hues of a gnome will begin to pale, eventually becoming pure white. This "bleaching" spreads across their body, until eventually all colour is lost. Throughout this process most gnomes report a number of other symptoms including a growing lethargy, a dulling of their emotions and senses, and towards the very end a weakening of their physical and mental faculties. Upon losing all colouration a gnome will die, falling calmly unconscious never to awaken, just as though they had passed of old age in their sleep.

Many people outside of Mallerand often have little experience with bleaching gnomes, and there have been many cases of other mortals believing their gnomish acquaintance to have become ill or to be trying out some new aesthetic. It is however generally considered quite rude in gnomish culture to point out signs of bleaching, much as it is the same to point out someone beginning to wrinkle or bald. Amongst the gnomes themselves, they seem to rarely speak much of bleaching, it is a silently acknowledged truth of their existence but one it seems they'd rather not dwell upon. The one thing that does seem to distinguish it from more than just an unusual manifestation of the aging process, is that there are cases in which bleaching has been slowed, or even reversed. Again however, openly talking about such things or claiming to actively seek such a change for oneself is deemed quite gauche and unseemly. Those willing to break such taboos however often find themselves seeking the clergy of [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Vorvado|Vorvado]], a god who achieved enlightenment through supposedly surviving his own bleaching process.