Found in the swamps and marshes of the continent, these small green people have often been subject to violence and discrimination by various others throughout history. Shorter-lived and prolific within their native regions, they are often employed or enslaved for cheap labour, particularly in the west. Those living in the east tend to be less exploited, protected by the [[Culture/List of Factions#Kopani Coven|Kopani Coven]] and the militia of [[Geography/Weald/Weald#Daladil|Daladil]]. With a preference for storytelling and self-discovery over more formal means of education many see goblin villages as rural and uncultured, but they have an exceptional breadth of knowledge when it comes to the survival and traversal of their homelands and many travellers fare poorly without a goblin guide.
## Culture
While there are commonalities between goblin culture, there are also three general kinds of goblin: eastern, western, and cosmopolitan. Regardless of origin, most goblins seek each other out wherever they are, a tendency born from self-preservation and centuries of discrimination. Goblins in the west are often seen as savage and wild, not much different from [[Beastiary/Boggards|boggards]], but this is largely because the goblins of the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Sullen Swamp|Sullen Swamp]] are the most victimised by all manner of slavers and bandits who often see the native goblins as little more than work beasts. This leads many of the goblins free from the yoke of slavers to be fiercely defensive towards any outsiders, preferring to keep themselves hidden within the twisting backwaters of the area. Eastern goblins are protected by the local powers (the [[Culture/List of Factions#Kopani Coven|Kopani Coven]] and the city of [[Geography/Weald/Weald#Daladil|Daladil]]) being primarily goblin-controlled, and thus have been allowed to exist openly without fear of enslavement. They are still relatively isolationist, but this comes more from a desire to preserve their way of life which many outsiders aren't willing to adopt. Due to a history of enslavement and expulsion, there are also a number of goblins who live throughout the [[Geography/Weald/Weald|Weald]] beyond the swamps, integrated into the cities and settlements of the other mortal races. While these goblins are typically well adapted to their cosmopolitan societies, many are still seen as second-class citizens and few ever rise to positions of status or wealth. Some of this is due to persistent discrimination, but many goblins seem to share the [[Culture/Mortal Races/Halfling|halflings']] tendency to lack ambition and desire to climb such social ladders. Most goblins are not particularly spiritual, although they frequently acknowledge [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Panismé|Panismé]], [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Zeva|Zeva]], and [[Lingzul]]. They are the only culture to acknowledge [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Kanna|Kanna]] as a god, and have a deep distrust if not hatred for [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia|Tenesia]] - possibly as a result of centuries of conflict with crusaders from [[Geography/Cruworia|Cruworia]] in the east.