Native to the pastoral regions along the [[[Geography/Rivers#Reden|Reden]] and throughout the [[Geography/Weald/Weald|Weald]], halflings are a race of small people who tend to value the simple things in life. Most live in agricultural communities with big families, working the land to feed themselves and spending the rest of their time either socialising or travelling. Many of the couriers, traders, and adventurers of the Weald are halflings who want to worry about nothing more than their next meal and their next destination. As a result of their carefree nature many bandits or warlords see them as easy targets, leading many to take up tool and torch to defend their homes. Many descriptions of such halfling militia liken them to rabbits or gophers - with an underestimated bite and near impossible to rout.
## Culture
The subsistence agricultural communities of most halflings tend to favour practical solutions and "good enough" results - if it isn't an immediate problem, it can probably wait until tomorrow. Most halflings place great emphasis on recreation and relaxation, as well as family gatherings - often every birthday, every marriage, every baby shower, seems to be cause for a big meal and a day of rest with every half-relative this side of the Reden. Being so centrally located, as well as having such a tendency to move about, halflings are also relatively integrated with plenty of other cultures who have broached into the Weald. They are particularly known to get on well with humans, although there does still seem to be a clear distinction made between the halflings of the Weald and the human kingdom of [[Geography/Agercort|Agercort]] - despite the many halflings who have thrown themselves in with Agercort following the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War|Scarlett War]]. Many halflings tend to regularly worship [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Panismé|Panismé]] and [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Lingzul|Lingzul]], gods who share their fondness for recreation and the importance of family. Many halflings however do also worship [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Drytog|Drytog]], making up a good proportion of the [[Culture/Factions/Whitesun Lodge|Whitesun Lodge]].
## Flowers of Freedom
Throughout the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War|Scarlett War]] and its aftermath, many halflings within the Weald are taken by slavers - a practice that has been difficult to eradicate despite the efforts of multiple factions acting throughout the continent. One of these factions are the Flowers of Freedom. A group of halflings, many who were once slaves themselves, who act covertly to free captured slaves and disrupt the business of those who would go about enslaving others. It is rumoured that they are supported by the crown of [[Geography/Agercort|Agercort]], but there is no proof of this and [[Culture/Important People#King Tyrell of Agercort|King Tyrell]] denies such claims. Many of the halflings throughout the Weald would gladly do what they can to help the Flowers, and they have no difficulty recruiting new members - many halflings know someone who has been effected by the actions of slavers.