A race of green-skinned and tusked people living in the temperate southeast, the orcish people are seen by many as a fierce and cruel people, in large part because of the deeply religious culture of their homeland of [[Geography/Cruworia|Cruworia]]. Living for about five to six decades, it is a common belief amongst orcs that their physical nature is a curse placed upon them by [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia|Tenesia]] and that only through devout repentance can they be restored to their previous forms. Within the borders of Cruworia, most orcs are a serious and devout group who live within strict moral mandates passed down from the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia#Church of the Rose|Church of the Rose]]. Orcs are also renowned for their ability with beasts, often producing highly sought after mounts or hunting dogs, or even more exotic tamed creatures.
## Culture
Neighbours and family members are often encouraged to report on each others failings, producing a society of competitive people with various superiority or inferiority complexes. There are of course those within Cruworia who resent this way of life and many endeavour to leave for the [[Geography/Weald/Weald|Weald]] and beyond. Labelled apostates, such individuals caught within Cruworia face uncertain fates, but those who escape are excommunicated and forbidden from returning. Many orcish settlements exist out in the Weald, often left behind from the retreating borders of Cruworia following the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War#The Burgundy Treatise|Burgundy Treatise]] and are often an unusual fusion of old Cruworian beliefs and either foreign concepts or completely novel traditions adopted by those left behind. Understandably almost all orcs actively worship [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia|Tenesia]], even often those who have left Cruworia. Apostates who reject their old faith sometimes find it hard to adjust to any of the other gods and often tend towards a life lacking strong spiritual practices.