---
title: "Weald"
---
The Weald is the general term used to describe the great swathes of land along the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Reden|Reden]] that lie unclaimed by any of the kingdoms. Instead the many towns and villages that exist in the region are independent and feature a wide array of politics and cultures. The no mans land of the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War|Scarlett War]], the people who live there are the descendants of the war-torn survivors, the rebels and renegades, the criminals and the vagrants. Many still have a distrust of the kingdoms and any authority they might try to exert over the Weald.

## Falafair
The town of Falafair sits in the [[Geography/Weald/Weald|Weald]] in the centre of the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Sullen Swamp|Sullen Swamp]]. It has a population of approximately 1,000, with the majority consisting of [[Culture/Races#Humans|humans]] and [[Culture/Races#Halflings|halflings]]. The town built itself up as a central marketplace for the many hunters, gatherers, and fishers of the marsh to congregate and sell their wares to each other and to outsiders. It is also possible to find mercenary scouts willing to guide travellers through marsh, or swamp shamans capable of communing with the surrounding nature.

It has grown following the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War#The Burgundy Treatise|Burgundy Treatise]] to become a cluster of wood and thatch buildings surrounded by a sturdy palisade to separate it from the marsh. Permanent residents draw food from the marketplace and in turn provide more developed functions such as proper clay kilns, metalworking, and goods imported from elsewhere. The town guard of about a half dozen are known to be particularly harsh against those suspected of mystical deceit, and they wear cloaks of invisibility following a past incident that has since become tradition.

<u>The Month of Missing</u> 
In the spring of 17 3E, Falafair was preparing for the new trickle of merchants following the winter months. During these initial weeks merchants, both local and incoming, found merchandise and money going missing. Many of the travelling merchants put blame on the townsfolk, calling the marketplace a ruse to lure merchants to the marsh. This was a greater threat to Falafair than the missing coin, if merchants began to spread word not to travel to Falafair then the town would likely not survive to the next winter. Eventually, the services of an esteemed shaman from the marsh was procured, and it was discovered that a group of bandits camping only an hour beyond the town were the culprits, utilising stolen cloaks that rendered them invisible. After apprehending the criminals, the town guard began using the cloaks themselves while on patrol after realising that whilst invisible they could spot other invisible people. As the town grew, more cloaks were made, and it has since become tradition for the town guards to wear such cloaks while on duty.

## Odgood
The town of Odgood sits in the [[Geography/Weald/Weald|Weald]] in a lightly forested region a few days north of the [[Geography/Cruworia|Cruworia]] border. It has a population of about 1,600, the majority of whom are [[Culture/Races#Humans|human]] or [[Culture/Races#Orcs|orcs]] who wish to live outside the direct reach of the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia#Church of the Rose|Church of the Rose]]. Since trade has begun to move in and out of both Agercort and Cruworia from the Weald, Odgood has begun to slowly rebuild itself. Other than these newfound trade opportunities, most of the town consists of self-sufficient settlers either farming the small cleared fields of potatoes and squash, or acting as hunters and woodsman of the surrounding forests.

Mostly solid log cabins and with crude cobble bases, the town has a stout stone wall only about 2 metres tall - not enough to truly prevent attackers, the stone is a remnant of the old walls. But atop them are fresh new wooden palisades that offer at least some barrier from would be bandits or monsters. There is an entire cottage industry of preserving, baking, drying, everything that could imaginably be done with the simple vegetables grown. The people are generally good-natured for people in their position - as they lack the force to deny Cruworian trade caravans even if they wanted to, they are forced to watch outsiders from the south with a careful eye that it might be some come to claim bounties on 'renegades' or 'heretics'.

<u>The Dreamer's Shrine</u>
About an hour beyond the fields of Odgood, known by most of the locals, is what appears to be an old shrine to [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Zeva|Zeva]] fallen into ruins during the War. While still in disrepair, the shrine is still active, being used as the ritual site of the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Zeva#Order of Oneiromancers|Order of Oneiromancers]]. On certain nights fires are lit at the shrine and music can be heard drifting on the air from that direction, but the townsfolk know not to intervene. Part of their success comes from the Order - in return for discretion, they receive warnings from the Order of things yet to come. They can prepare extra preserves before a harsh winter, lock their doors to a sick caravan, or hide one of their own when crusaders come searching. It is also not uncommon for travellers to come seeking the insights of the Order, staying in town for a few nights before moving on with whatever insight they were looking for. As such the people of Osgood are a generally happy people, who know not to ask too many questions, and who watch travellers with a knowing smile.

## Gemend
The town of Gemend is nestled between the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Reden|Reden]] and the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Ilma|Ilma]], and such acts as a port town for the many barges heading up and down the rivers. One of the wealthier towns in the [[Geography/Weald/Weald|Weald]], over 2,250 people reside in the town at any one time - many of them merchants, shipwrights, dockhands, all benefitting from the constant flow of commerce through the town. They do produce some local foods from fisherman, but most food supplies come from either the surrounding villages or from the trade barges on the river. Their wealth would normally make them a tempting target for bandits, but positioned as they are between two rivers, they need only a solid wall to the east to ensure that they remain safe. That being said, a decent amount of coin has also been invested into the town guard who often sport polished new armour or swords serving to keep the people's confidence in the security of Gemend.

## Barrtrag
The town of Barrtrag is about halfway between [[Geography/Vurnam#Gerting|Gerting]] and [[Geography/Port Manteaux|Port Manteaux]], just south of the [[Geography/Vurnam|Vurnam]] border it falls within the midst of the [[Geography/Natural/Forests#Forest of Needles|Forest of Needles]]. While most trade between the two cities is via ship, Barrtrag does fall along the most direct route by land, so despite otherwise being in the middle of nowhere does occasionally see a trade caravan or group of travellers pass though. The origins of the small town, only about 1,000 people in size, began a couple of years after the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War#The Burgundy Treatise|Burgundy Treatise]] when a group of druids, unhappy with the ceasefire, chose to leave Vurnam. Over the generations since, the people there have insulated themselves against the outside world and become a people with many traditions and preserved customs found nowhere else in Vurnam. Known as the Old Ways, or *lan ha*, there are some who travel far to learn what lost or hidden knowledge the people of Barrtrag have. It is said that their shamans have medicines for all ailments, and can cure even broken bones in a single night. They are wary of sharing their insights with outsiders though, and coin seems of little interest to them even for the wealthy willing to travel so far.

<u>Altar of Thorns</u>
The only reason a traveller might come to Barrtrag, maintained outside the town in the nearby forest is a circle of stone around an ancient altar overgrown by wild roses. The locals refer to it as the Altar of Thorns, a holy site of the goddess [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia|Tenesia]]. There are people who claim to have been afflicted by either some terrible curse or an incurable disease, something that no doctor, priest, or shaman has been able to help, who are now recovered thanks to the Altar. The locals never get sick, and remain fit well into old age, supposedly thanks to the blessings of Tenesia. It is only the kind of thing you would hear of, or believe, if you were desperate for a miracle cure, and the people of Barrtrag claim their health is due to their adherence to their old customs and not something for outsiders.


## Pallgruff
North of the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Reden|Reden]], on the edge of the steppes that lead into [[Geography/Vurnam|Vurnam]] sits the town of Pallgruff. Home to approximately 1,500 people, the town was first a campsite of workers and clerics of [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Drytog|Drytog]] dedicated to the nearby crypts. Following the ratification of the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War#The Burgundy Treatise|Burgundy Treatise]], it was decided that a great memorial would be erected for those who had fallen. One of the last great battlefields, still drenched in blood, lay on the borders of Vurnam where Pallgruff now stands. Bodies were buried en mass, and those who had died elsewhere were inscribed on the walls of the ever-growing crypts. Since then a whole community has established itself maintaining the necropolis and managing those who seek access or even internment. Many people still travel to the town for rituals, memorials, and all manner of observances of those who were lost during the War.

## Daladil
At the brackish beginnings of the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Reden|Reden]] delta, Daladil is far enough from the main travel routes that one doesn't find themselves there by accident easily, but close enough that it is not of great difficulty to arrive intentionally. A town of about 1000, almost exclusively [[Culture/Races#Goblins|goblins]], there are many who think of the town as a stain that would be best ignored. The goblins however are resilient and resourceful, having withstood the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War|Scarlett War]] raging around them, goblin refugees found solace in the convenient yet isolated hideaway of Daladil where the fringes of the Reden delta meet the tree line of [[Geography/Natural/Forests#Grey Forest|Grey Forest]]. This mixing of biomes provide the ingenious amongst the goblins with a unique array of materials and it is said that the shamans of Daladil can concoct thousands of different elixirs from them. They don't trade much, although some do occasionally make the trip to [[Geography/Port Manteaux|Port Manteaux]] or [[Geography/Weald/Weald#Gemend|Gemend]] to sell their trinkets for coin. Typically those who seek the service of a goblin shaman must make the trip themselves.

## Intarg
Almost completely in the centre of the continent, and the [[Geography/Weald/Weald|Weald]], is the town of Intarg. Surrounded by a sturdy palisade and fields of vegetables, Intarg is a [[Culture/Races#Halflings|halfling]] founded community of approximately 2,100 established during the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War|Scarlett War]]. Those who think nobly of the halflings, think of Intarg's role as a place of hospice and ceasefire. Soldiers injured on the surrounding fields could be brought to Intarg to seek medical aid, and the halflings would turn none away. While it was threatened many times, the people of Intarg insisted on maintaining a neutral haven for the injured. The central plaza of town is still overlooked by the massive hospice, now partially converted into a town hall of sorts. Others however also whisper of the shadier side of Intarg - it acted as a sort of black market during the war, where one could trade both illegal goods and information in neutral ground under the guise of seeking medical care or recovering fallen comrades. It is said by some that such shady dealings still go on, but if they do then they are hidden well as in modern times Intarg simply acts as one of the larger towns of the Weald.

## Moriad
While many [[Culture/Races#Gnomes|gnomes]] historically live within the borders of [[Geography/Mallerand|Mallerand]], Moriad is one of the remaining settlements that didn't choose to merge with the [[Culture/Races#Dwarves|dwarves]] under one banner. Sitting south of the foothills of Mallerand, on the fringes of the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Sullen Swamp|Sullen Swamp]], the community of about 1,300 gnomes is relatively isolated. They tend to fields of hardy vegetables, and fish from the marshy waters, practicing gnome traditions lost now to those living in the north. Travelling in the region is dangerous for many not versed in the precautions needed to avoid the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Vorvado#Fog of the False|Fog of the False]]. There are many every year who attempt the trip to Moriad never to be heard from again after becoming lost.

## Selport
Often acting as a midway point between [[Geography/Port Manteaux|Port Manteaux]] and [[Geography/Vurnam#Rotewan|Rotewan]], the port town of Selport is home to about 1,800 people, most of whom are [[Culture/Races#Humans|humans]]. The town itself came to be initially as what was probably a pirate outpost that effectively went legitimate after the discovery of the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Koray Caves|Koray Caves]]. The town is able to produce a profitable amount of marine goods, such as pearls and coral, which get exported by ship. Many in Selport take up the trade of sailing the trade barges up and down the coast, and travel to the town by foot is often too difficult to bother. 