Roaming up and down [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Sweetwater River|Sweetwater River]], the Gu'shoter tribe are a group of loyalists tending to patches of [[Culture/Crops and Agriculture#Zarfruit|zarfruit]] growing along the waters. Being in such close proximity to [[Geography/Vurnam/Major Cities/Gerting|Gerting]], they enjoy a relative degree of protection from bandits, although they still lose many each year to the dangers of the waters. Wary of the lessons of [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Lingzul#Vilakan, Beast of Water|Vilakan]], they leave many offerings adrift in the shallows as they pass.

## Territories

### Danjei
Around the shores of [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Danjei Lake|Danjei Lake]] grow not the traditional zarfruit, but a variant often called firefruit for the golden streaks that remain on the rind even when fully ripe and the intensity of the flavour. Once refined and preserved, firefruit has a heat that dwarfs the standard zarfruit spice, to the point that it is primarily used for medicinal and ritualistic purposes rather than an actual foodstuff.
### Zebgua
On the edge of the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Kulte|Kulte]] itself, many barges pass by Zebgua going to or from [[Geography/Vurnam/Major Cities/Gerting|Gerting]]. Featuring a permanent dock and a small permanent encampment, it is here the the Gu'shoter engage in most of their trade with other tribes (although some do on occasion travel to Gerting itself). As the encampment has remained permanent for a number of generations now since the war ended, it has begun to distinguish itself from the rest of the Gu'shoter tribesfolk as the inhabitants often remain year round fishing and tending fields of zarfruit, only engaging with others of the tribe when they pass through to trade during the early winter.
### Zwei Ling Fork
Where the Sweetwater forks amidst the forests near its beginnings, the Gu'shoter maintain and revere a great shrine to [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Lingzul|Lingzul]] and [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Lingzul#Yemon, Beast of Wood|Yemon]], A small group of druids maintain residence there year-round, while many of the tribe arrive during the early spring and early autumn for annual ceremonies.