A collection of various farmsteads who have since grown to a small village of about 360 people, Bostaak primarily produces both longbeans and is the primary producer of brownbeans in the region.

## Brownbeans
Brownbeans are normally difficult to cultivate this far south due to the lower temperatures and higher rainfall, however thanks to a family secret of the mayor, the townsfolk of Bostaak have been cultivating the crop for about twenty years. Due to the reduced costs of transporting the crop from [[Geography/Vurnam|Vurnam]], the farming community is able to ask for a good price for their produce when shipping south to either [[Geography/Agercort|Agercort]] or [[Geography/Cruworia|Cruworia]].

## Mayor Sem-Sem
Current leader of the farm-town, it is relatively unusual to have a goblin in charge of a mixed race community, but the people of Bostaak are unusually hospitable to goblins. This is largely as a result of their goblin mayor, who just like his father before him knows the secret to cultivating the brownbean. At the start of sowing season every year, Sem-Sem and his family fertilize the fields with a special mixture that seems to dry out the soil and make it much more likely to sprout and support the northern crop. He lives with his whole extended family in a large house in the middle of town, right next to the general store. While the de facto leader of town, Sem-Sem is by no means a born leader and instead ensures that the opinion of everyone in town gets heard before any group decisions are made.
## Green Stag Lodge
On the edge of town, the hunter's lodge offers all manner of survival supplies, fletching equipment, and leatherworking services. Primarily run by a human called Ryan, the life-long ranger frequently hunts the nearby forests and teaches some of the townsfolk how to do so as well. 
## Vanvelt Estate
A few hours north of town lies the Vanvelt Estate, which includes a small manor house with attached stables, a half dozen farmhouses, and a small barn and granary. The families here grow crops on the surrounding land owned by Lord Henry Vanvelt. His father claimed the manor in the year 19 3E, after it had lain abandoned for at least a decade. As many records during the War and its following years were very spotty within the Weald, the original owners were unknown. After his father passed, Lord Henry Vanvelt inherited the estate while his half-sister left. He later married but became a widower before he could have any children of his own.
