An old colony of [[Geography/Cruworia|Cruworia]], Bydel is still strongly influenced by its roots and is still home to many orcs and many who worship [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia|Tenesia]]. Many missionaries pass through here on their way east or north from Cruworia, spreading their faith - and often bringing coin and news as they do. As generations have passed however, the yoke of the Church has been lifted so far beyond the border, and some claim that Bydel could represent a sort of reformation of Tenesia's followers, at least amongst the now 560 people who live there.
Faith was not the only thing brought from the south, Bydel is also the source of much of the fabric goods throughout the southern Weald, with many of their fields dedicated to qebstrand plants throughout the summer months.
## Chapel of Tenesia
Almost two centuries old, the chapel in the centre of town is still well maintained by the devoted sect of acolytes led by Sister Satessa. Many who worship the goddess make the pilgrimage to the chapel at various points, either for religious ceremonies or special occasions. There are also regular missions from the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia#Church of the Rose|Church of the Rose]], adding even more traffic through the bustling crossroads community. There is no lord or guild that rules Bydel, instead the chapel owns the land and tithes the people, governing the people in return. As their relationship with Cruworia has faded over the decades, the chapel's ideas of justice and faith have begun to change.
## Zuell, Town Pariah
Living just off the town square, in a small house that looks a little rundown and a little overgrown, is the human sorceress Zuell. She largely keeps to herself, and is somewhat of a town celebrity in that she is often a great point of gossip and has a number of urban tales spread about her. What is known, is that she largely keeps to herself, never causes any trouble, and she attends the chapel sermon every week. What is somewhat less certain is her origins. As the locals tell it, Zuell has lived there all their lives. Some of the eldest residents seem to recall their parents telling them when the sorceress first moved in, which must have been right after the War ended. It isn't unheard of for those with great magic to live longer than usual, but her seeming longevity combined with her uncanny behaviour and self-isolation have led town gossips to go wild for decades. She does meet regularly with Sister Satessa, and has helped the chapel and the town with her magics when requested.
## The Appostata
A building, a guild, a tradition - the Appostata is the group of weavers and tailors who take the qebstrand harvest and turn it into various goods for transport and trade. Currently led by an orcish woman called Lola, they are based in a large factory near the centre of town full of looms, spinning wheels, pressers, everything needed to process the crop. From their it is distributed to various stores and workshops around town for further processing into clothes, rope, paper, and canvas - all using traditional Cruworian techniques passed down through families, and even now to new families. The Appostata is a great deal of income and pride for the town, making Lola an important pillar of the community - even if there are some vying to oust her for letting new families into the fold.
## Falling Star Inn
Off the main market square sits a large two story tavern and inn, with stable attached, catering to the many travellers moving through Bydel. Between traders, pilgrims, missionaries, and just travellers, the inn almost always has many of the rooms occupied. Run by a elf-orc couple, Xander sees to all the maintenance and stable work (and all the rough customers), while his wife Sabivh cleans and cooks the meals. The tavern used to be owned by Sabivh's father Ajani, who was vehemently opposed to her relationship with Xander. It was only with Sister Satessa's intervention that Ajani reluctantly permitted the union, and despite everything he still spends most his time grumbling over the whole thing and idly threatening to kick Xander out some day.
