Home to over 1200 people, Huur Hill sits around a small high point overlooking the trade crossroads moving from the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Reden|Reden]] south to [[Geography/Agercort|Agercort]]. A highly contested position, it was claimed by the Goldcoat Company around the year 14 3E, and they have yet to lose control of it since.

## Goldcoat Company
The unquestioned authority of Huur Hill, this company of mercenaries are infamous across the southern Weald for their ruthlessness. After the end of the War, much of the Weald was up for grabs, and banditry and would-be warlords rose and fell. The Goldcoat Company are one of the more enduring examples of this, taking the easily fortified and economically strategic Huur Hill as their base of operations. Many of the trade routes between the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Reden|Reden]] and the south pass through Huur Hill and the Goldcoat's hefty taxes. They are also the primary slavetraders of the southern Weald, sending many captured or otherwise acquired slaves north or putting them to work in their own fields. While their domain does stand relatively unquestioned, they do also seem thankfully content with their current borders and have yet to make any further claims for the past decade or so.
## Captain Sanjung
Leader of the Goldcoat Company, Captain Sanjung is feared by many of the communities surrounding Huur Hill. Having come to power only a couple of years prior, he had risen through the ranks quickly and claimed the leadership position after his predecessor fell in a raid gone wrong. It didn't take long for him to cement his position, and both his ruthlessness and his wicked cunning have earned him infamy. Given his capabilities however, many are suspect that the Goldcoats have not pushed to expand their influence under his governance, with some fearing he is planning something big.
## The Shackled Square
Likely the most infamous site in Huur Hill, the Shackled Square is a central stone paved square positioned just outside Goldcoat Keep. It is here that slaves are bought and sold, kept in pens or shackled in chains while they await auction. Many townsfolk avoid this area like the plague, while of course for a number of people the Square is the purpose of their visit. In addition to the slave trade, the Square also features the Goldcoat bounty boards, a collection of those wanted for debts or crimes with a bounty for those capable enough to bring them to Goldcoat Keep for trial (and likely either enslavement or execution).
## The Tipped Scales
Found just off the Shackled Square, the Tipped Scales sit in what appears to be a relatively normal, if a bit well-off, shopfront. Entering the building, it becomes apparent that the stone walls are extra-thick, as is the iron bar reinforced glass windows and the iron plated doors with a multitude of locks and bars. Clearly with a strong set of security, the Tipped Scales are effectively a bank, offering safe and secure storage of material wealth for a nominal fee. A brief talk around town however will quickly reveal that their true business comes from money-lending. They are willing to provide an array of different loans, often at exorbitant interest, and those incapable of payment quickly find themselves on the Goldcoat bounty boards.
## The Rag Market
A market square on the western side of town, this is the primary marketplace for the various farmers, labourers, and other poor folk of Huur Hill. While some coin is exchanged, much is also done in the way of barter as well, with many of the folk in town having little in the way of currency after paying taxes to the Goldcoats. You will likely find little of quality in the Rag Market, both in the merchandise and the people.
## Grinning Skull Barracks
An inn found not far from the Shackled Square, it is where many of the slavers and mercenaries stay while coming through town. Some normal traders and travellers will pass through as well, but many of them tend not to linger long. The place is run by an orc called Kibado, a large man with many battle scars and who is more than capable of intimidating even most of the slavers that pass through town.
## Onviverie, Town Doctor
A halfling with an imperious look, she is the town's only qualified resident doctor. She also has two assistants, Harold and Dedlin, whom she is training. While many would leave Huur Hill given the opportunity, for Onviverie it seems to be a matter of pride - she is going to stay, she is going to help people, and she could not care less what the Goldcoats think of it. Being the only competent doctor means that the Goldcoats need her around, a fact she abuses any ways she can. She also offers charity medical care to the people in the Rag Market once a week.
## Wrenclaw, Weaponsmith
With a forge and smithy near the middle of town, Wrenclaw is the primary commercial smith of Huur Hill. While the Goldcoats do have their own smithy and blacksmith, an orc by the name of Hadid, Wrenclaw often does most of the work for the townsfolk and for many of the travellers and adventurers that come through town. She is a halfling woman who has almost two decades of experience running the smithy there, and her weapons are well crafted.
## Steel Sorcery
Run by the sorcerers Merlin and Marjorie, the two siblings offer spellcasting services as well as equipment and consumables for the more hardened of spellcasters. Many of the bounty hunters and adventurers who pass through Huur Hill are looking for more combat-oriented magical gear, so they have dedicated a decent amount of their services towards this clientele.

