A small mining community of about 420 people, situated two and a half days west of [[Geography/Weald/Minor Towns/Huur Hill|Huur Hill]]. The settlement itself is only a couple of decades old, having been founded in 34 3E by Natus Forgenti, an entrepreneur from [[Geography/Mallerand#Ed Fadina|Ed Fadina]]. It seems she set out from [[Geography/Mallerand|Mallerand]] with about a dozen workers upon the direction of a cleric of [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Zeva|Zeva]], simply stopping at a point in the grassy plains and declaring that this is where they would dig. And within a couple days of breaking ground, her workers indeed found the starts of a silver vein. Since then, the Forgenti family have hired more workers from the local area and expanded mining operations, leading to a whole community springing up around the mine. Being in such proximity to Huur Hill, they pay regular tithes to the [[Geography/Weald/Minor Towns/Huur Hill#Goldcoat Company|Goldcoat Company]] but it is a small price given the wealth they are producing. The Forgenti family have made close ties with the Goldcoats, especially since Natus effectively retired and her son Avidon has taken up management of the mine. They are a regular buyer of slaves from Huur Hill, putting them to work in the more dangerous or unpleasant parts of the mine.
## Forgenti Manor
Not far from the mine itself stands the home of the Forgenti family, easily the most impressive building in town. The large two storey manor is built largely from the mined stone and built in Mallerand fashion by the workers who originally founded the mine. Beneath the manor is said the be where the Forgenti keep their wealth, inside a large vault with (if gossip is to be believed) a plethora of dwarven traps and security measures. Despite their appearance as a traditional Mallerand manor house, no one is aware of any visitors from Mallerand ever coming. The Forgenti have never held any kind of party or social event, and few bar them have actually entered the house.
## Stone Midden
On the outskirts of the village is a shallow pit which has been filled with various debris and refuse both from the mines and also from the townsfolk themselves. The dumping ground has built up over the years, and has become a bit of a hazard, but as slaves are typically the ones depositing the trash it isn't given much concern. It isn't unheard of for a sudden shift in the rubbish to cause a pile to slide down onto someone, or to shift beneath them and drag them under. Most just avoid the place and children are warned never to play near there.
## The Sozzled Cockatrice
Serving as both a tavern and an inn, the Sozzled Cock as it is often called by many of it's patrons is one of the main places of congregation in town for the various miners and labourers. Run by a burly dwarven man by the name of Robertus, he started the place once the first local labourers began showing up looking to work in the mines. Seeing a growing need, he began selling the dwarven ale he brewed himself and soon was able to open up a tavern. He has managed to make a partnership with an elven woman, Beifon, who supplies him with the necessary honey for his brewing.
## The Mine
Running hundreds of feet below the surface at this point, the mine rapidly branches into numerous tunnels and mineshafts connected by minecart rails and pulley-based elevators. While most of the employed workers operate during the day, there are miners around the clock thanks to the use of slave labour. The silver ore is carted out and sent for either refinement or storage, while other miscellaneous rock is either used for masonry or sent to the Midden as rubbish. There are rumours amongst the workers that there are secret sealed off tunnels in the mines, containing everything from slave corpses to diamond geodes to blood altars to the Three. The Forgenti and their overseers discourage such rumours harshly, but they still persist.
## Forgenti Mint
One of the primary destinations for the silver ore, the mint in town is also owned by the Forgenti and is largely responsible for all the silver currency in the southern Weald. The mint produces both bullion for further distribution and crafting, as well as into coinage. The entire thing is overseen by Motera Numinus, one of the dwarven followers who initially found Paglux and the mine under Natus Forgenti's expedition. The building and its contents are closely guarded, and workers are inspected upon exit for any signs of smuggling out freshly forged coins.