
## The Intrepideers
*see [[Geography/Weald/Minor Towns/Gronmarket#The Intrepideers|The Intrepideers]]*
A local company of adventurers and would-be heroes located in [[Geography/Weald/Minor Towns/Gronmarket|Gronmarket]]. With patronage from the wealthy Lord Veeler, the ragtag group patrols the green countryside around their home on the lookout for people to help.
## Goldcoat Company
*see [[Geography/Weald/Minor Towns/Huur Hill#Goldcoat Company|Goldcoat Company]]*
A mercenary company who controls the area around [[Geography/Weald/Minor Towns/Huur Hill|Huur Hill]]. Ruthless and efficient, they arose during the chaos after the War and were able to establish a foothold along a major trade route between Agercort and the Reden. Any trade caravans going through their territory face stiff tariffs, and harsh punishment for any attempts to avoid taxation.
## Order of the White Rose
*see [[Geography/Campaign_Notes/Knights of the White Rose|Knights of the White Rose]]*
Operating from the reclaimed ruins of [[Geography/Weald/Villages of the Weald#Fort Justice|Fort Justice]], this order of knights are devout followers of Tenesia - in particular of her handmaiden [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia#Nithina, Angel of Purity|Nithina, Angel of Purity]]. Their attempts to bring order and justice to the Weald after the War has been met with mixed reactions, with many locals uneasy about knights of Tenesia claiming to want what is best for them.
## Whitesun Lodge
*see [[Culture/Factions/Whitesun Lodge|Whitesun Lodge]]*
A continent-wide network of [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Drytog|Drytog's]] clergy, they are healers and hallowed priests who offer their services to those in need of them. While many patrol over a region, there are also established Lodges where new members are recruited and trained. These places are often also hospitals, temples, crypts, and defensible refuges.
## Nyktinos Coven
The Coven of the Dark Hour are scattered across the eastern borders of the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Sullen Swamp|Sullen Swamp]], often isolated from any other nearby settlements or signs of civilization. They are some of the most malevolent of the covens, following esoteric laws and customs which many outside the coven find barbaric and wicked.
## Tychus Coven
The Coven of Fate's Skein can be found within the [[Geography/Natural/Forests#Grey Forest|Grey Forest]], often living as hermits or small groups far from the larger towns and roads. Many still seek them out, seeking their magical gifts of divination. They claim to have a close connection with [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Zeva|Zeva]], and to many it is unclear if they worship the goddess or if their relationship is something else.
## Roun Coven
The Coven of the First Words live in sanctums carved into the mountains of [[Geography/Mallerand|Mallerand]], often in large communes of witches who are self-sufficient and close guarded. They will often meet with those who request audience, or send emissaries to the dwarven cities, but very few outside the coven are permitted within their sanctum walls. It is said their esoteric knowledge of arcane rituals rivals that of the [[Culture/Factions/College of Night|College of Night]].
## Symvasi Coven
The Coven of the Bloody Seal have members on islands and along much of the coast, but a great deal of the coven reside in [[Geography/Port Manteaux|Port Manteaux]], in part because they are one of the families of the [[Geography/Port Manteaux#The Corsair Court|Corsair Court]]. The most socially integrated of the covens, it is not hard to find a member - in fact it is often hard to avoid them if you do business in Port Manteaux. They have made a great deal of money by brokering trade deals through the city, and those who break a deal with the Symvasi do not live long enough to break another.
## Erisea Coven
The Coven of the Heretical Song were once found along the southern coast of [[Geography/Cruworia|Cruworia]] although witch hunts conducted by the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Tenesia#Church of the Rose|Church of the Rose]] have supposedly expunged all trace of them. Despite official statements from the Church that all witches of the line were put to death and all their texts were burned, there continue to be rumours and whispers of survivors who practice in secret and seek to recover their lost knowledge at any cost.
## Kopani Coven
The Coven of the Inescapable Itch live in the western deltas and mangroves of the Reden to the north of [[Geography/Weald/Weald#Daladil|Daladil]] in small camps. Many of their kind are goblins, leading those unfamiliar with them to underestimate them. Those who make enemies of the Kopani are said to beg for death, often succumbing to all manner of pestilence and disease for weeks, if not months, before their inevitable demise. The Kopani are said to know everything that happens in the delta.
## Andrikelo Coven
The Coven of the Dancing Hands are found in the grassy moors between the branching Reden and Kulte, often living amongst the communities there including a lodge in [[Geography/Vurnam#Flucha|Flucha]] and one in [[Geography/Weald/Weald#Pallgruff|Pallgruff]]. Industrious as far as witches are concerned, the Andrikelo specialise in the combination of witchcraft and artifice resulting in a plethora of sought after automata creations. While popular in Mallerand cities, there are many other places where such unnatural creations would be destroyed on sight.
## Nekrifos Coven
The Coven of Still Life are said to live within the deadlands at the base of the western mountains and north of the borders of [[Geography/Vurnam|Vurnam]]. Few dare tread in such terrain, where a slight mishap can result in quick death by exposure. It is said that none may pass through the region without the blessing of the Nekrifos, and that they are a humourless people with little in the way of mercy to those who stumble into their domain unprepared. They largely keep to themselves, living as they always have for centuries.
## Protarchik Coven
The Coven of the Boundless live on the coastline north of where the Kulte meets the sea. They roam across the area, relying solely on the land for sustenance and shelter. It is said that they live alongside the wild beasts, with some stories even claiming unions between the witches and beasts resulting in hybrid shapechangers. Elusive to civilized folks, encountering members of the Protarchik Coven can be a risky endeavour as they can just as easily hunt you down and tear you limb from limb as they can offer the bounty of the land.
## Malgev Coven
The Coven of the Spiteful Spirit are the most feared of all the covens. Found within the eastern parts of the [[Geography/Natural/Forests#Forest of Needles|Forest of Needles]], they have a large central commune that has supposedly stood for over a thousand years. Only the desperate or the foolish seek them out there, seeking the witches' dark powers for their own vengeance or malice. Some fear the Malgev more than even the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Jirem#Monastery of Moths|Monastery of Moths]] - they typically stop at just killing you. Once the Malgev have been invoked against you it is said your whole family will be cursed for six generations, not just with death, but with misfortune, torture, anguish, and guilt.