
The origins of Ung, more commonly referred to as just 'the Watcher', are unclear as his presence has been recorded in [Vurnam](Geography/Vurnam.md), [Agercort](Geography/Agercort.md), and throughout parts of the [Weald](Geography/Weald/Weald.md) since before the [Scarlett War](Culture/History/Scarlett%20War.md). Described as an incredibly tall and gaunt individual, accounts often describe him as either naked or in tattered robes with a ashen white face devoid of any features beyond eyes and an opening for a mouth. Some describe it more like a mask that a true face due to its unnatural lack of features and unchanging expression. Many foolish men have died trying to kill the creature, and folk lore teaches that your best chance is to try to escape and simply leave the creature be until he eventually moves on.

Regardless of direction, regardless of how many people approach, it is said Ung always appears to be looking at you as though trying to lock his gaze with yours. It is said if you meet his gaze you cannot look away. Reports and legends all tell that people somehow instinctively know that they should not avert their gaze, should not even blink - even reports of animals such as birds and livestock experiencing this instinctual response. On rare occasion ranchers in the steppes of Vurnam will find a whole herd of livestock dead, all facing towards a single point. If Ung becomes aware that you have looked away, you die. How death occurs is unclear, other than it is some terrible curse or wicked magic, but once you have met the monster's gaze you must keep it until he can see you no more. Often this involves backing away until an obstacle obstructs his vision of you, at which point you can turn and run. What is key is that he cannot see you at all.

Many folk tales have been spread to warn travellers, and to scare children. Many city folk disparage such tales, but most rural communities have either seen or heard from the town over of a field of livestock all dead while facing the same direction, or of a traveller lucky to escape with their life after encountering the Watcher on a dark night. There are some consistencies across the stories beyond the description of the creature and its effect - it is said that its presence produces a metallic taste to the nearby air, and travellers will often keep their eyes straight downwards when encountering such a thing. It has also been noted that while it does not appear to acknowledge rain, it has never been seen within half a mile of a body of water so some folk also tell travellers to head towards water should they ever suspect Ung might be nearby.
