A powerful Master of the Seven, Anfract was a dwarven wizard from [[Geography/Mallerand/Arx Saxum|Arx Saxum]], trained at the [[Culture/Factions/College of Night|College of Night]], and renowned for his arcane research of the other realms. During the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War|Scarlett War]] he was a regular presence in the [[Geography/Weald/Weald|Weald]], acting as a generally neutral third party on behalf of the civilian inhabitants of the region who had been devastated by the war. He is believed to have perished in 542 2E on the eastern edges of the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Sullen Swamp|Sullen Swamp]] during an assault by the [[Culture/List of Factions#Roun Coven|Roun Coven]] on the region, and was honoured as a war hero by the College of Night after the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War#The Burgundy Treatise|Burgundy Treatise]].
## Early Life
Born in [[Geography/Mallerand/Arx Saxum|Arx Saxum]] to one of the smaller noble families, Anfract's arcane talents were recognised early and he was quickly given tutelage and training leading to him being accepted to the [[Culture/Factions/College of Night|College of Night]] upon his first attempt. His initial education at the College was relatively unremarkable, Anfract was a good student who excelled in his studies, but he was not some sort of miracle prodigy. He completed his education in five years and returned home to Arx Saxum to find employment and to help elevate his family name. He worked for a number of different guilds and families over the next few decades, but seemingly became dissatisfied with such work and instead retreated to a small estate in the mountains where he began to further research and refine his magic.
## Master of the Seven
After a few decades of private research and study, Anfract returned to the College of Night to present his findings. It seems he had become fascinated by the magic of conjuration, and his presented theses and talents were sufficient for him to be awarded Master of Conjuration at a relatively young age. From this point he remained at the College for a number of decades, becoming a Master of Abjuration, Evocation, Illusion, and Transmutation. Upon becoming a Master of Six, Anfract became deeply frustrated at his inability to master the magics of Enchantment. While it is not uncommon for many who reach this point to fail to complete their final, and often weakest, area of study, when Anfract found his studies at the College unable to help him he instead decided to seek tutelage elsewhere. It is believed he found his success studying under the guidance of the fey, as upon his return to the College a few years later he was able to claim the title of Master of Enchantment, and thus Master of the Seven, with surprising ease. He attributed this himself to his time amongst the nymphs of [[Geography/Weald/Villages of the Weald#Dryadnest|Dryadnest]] and their mastery of manipulation.
## Anfract's Tower
Upon attaining the title of Master of the Seven, Anfract did not spend much longer at the College. Instead he ventured back into the Weald to spend more time amongst the fey he had become enamoured with. Around 455 2E he constructed his tower in the southern Weald, wherein he was believed to be pursuing his higher research of the arcane. Due to its centralised location, the tower found itself unable to avoid the conflicts of the War, even despite the surrounding woodland acting as a natural deterrent. Anfract maintained neutrality throughout the War, along with the College of Night and many other mages, however rather that staying out of the conflict Anfract instead intervened frequently in order to spare the locals of the Weald caught in the crossfire of the warring kingdoms. While forces from both Mallerand and Cruworia attempted to assault his tower at different points due to this interference, they were never able to breach Anfract's defenses. Some say that the fey fought by his side, sending any soldiers who entered the woods around the tower mad.
## Fall to the Roun Coven
In 542 2E, the Roun coven were moving through the Sullen Swamps and were about to enter the southern Weald. They had been largely unstoppable in their onslaught, wielding the presence of the Architect [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Ambrax#Veniceous, Keeper of the Grimoire|Veniceous]] to subjugate any locals who dared defy them. Having heard of the atrocities committed, Anfract prepared himself and met with the coven at the edge of the Sullen Swamp just south of [[Geography/Weald/Villages of the Weald#Dryadnest|Dryadnest]]. The skirmish lasted for hours, but eventually Anfract was seen to fall after severely wounding Veniceous. The coven was forced to retreat, and their influence over the swamps diminished greatly. Anfract's body was never discovered, and so hope of his survival persisted for almost a decade, but he was never heard from again.