---
title: "Sophia Pistis"
---
One of the most renowned names in history, many debate the true identity of Sophia Pistis. A great many people believe that Sophia Pistis is a title, rather than a name, handed down each generation to a new successor. This indeed seems reasonable, as records of Sophia Pistis predate the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War|Scarlett War]] and while powerful wizards and shamans may be able to extend their lives decades, to extend one's life centuries is otherwise unheard of. In that case, the reasonable assumption most people make is that there has been a line of a handful of powerful women who have inherited the title from the one before, and Sophia herself will simply respond to such questions with a coy smile at most.

There are some conspiracies that linger that she is indeed the same woman, who has through either arcane prowess, demonic pact, or divine intervention managed to achieve eternal youth. Some zealous conspirators treat the woman almost as a living goddess, seeking entrance to the [[Culture/Factions/College of Night|College of Night]] that they may study under her, while others see her as a manipulative witch to be stopped.

Regardless of her true nature or origins, what is clear is that Sophia Pistis is one of, if not the, most powerful wizard on the continent. She is rarely seen outside the College of Night where she resides, but upon urgent request or in dire circumstances she does sometimes leave the College to enact change upon the continent. While her true capabilities tend to be left to the imagination, there are some common claims and knowledge associated to Sophia Pistis.

## Queen of the Moonlit Court
Independent of any of the kingdoms, at least in theory, the Moonlit Court is the ruling body of the [[Culture/Factions/College of Night|College of Night]], and of arcane practitioners in general. While obviously not all mages directly follow the Court, most at least attempt not to openly contravene their laws and edicts. Sophia Pistis founded the Court following the ratification of the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War#The Burgundy Treatise|Burgundy Treatise]] as a means to help unify the kingdoms. Some critics of her instead claim it was to cripple the kingdoms by putting the most powerful mages of each kingdom directly under her thumb. The end result however was that effectively every "official" arcanist in any court in any kingdom does not answer to the local lord or king, but to the Moonlit Court, helping to prevent unnecessary magical conflicts. To her credit, she does not take a particularly strict approach with those not directly within the Court itself. Most of the time mages qualified under the Court only really need to follow a simple set of rules:
- You cannot cast upon a foreign citizen without either provocation or due course
- You cannot knowingly provoke conflict
- You cannot command on matters outside arcane lore

## First Master of the Seven Seals
According to the almost mythological stories of Sophia Pistis's early life, she was once a student of the College of Night, gifted like none before her had been. While many mages spend most of their life mastering a single of the Seven Seals, it is said that Sophia Pistis had mastered three by the time she graduated. Only a few years after that she became the first mage to ever master all Seven Seals. Since her there have been other mages of note who have managed to attain the title of Master of the Seven Seals, but most took their entire lives to do so. Whether there is only one Sophia Pistis, or a line of them, it is generally acknowledged that she is a Master of the Seven Seals, meaning if it is an inherited title it is likely a prerequisite of the role. Many students have images of her where they study, or in the cover of their student's grimoires, hoping that their studies might have even a fraction of her success.

## Mother of Three Terrors
One of the more unsavoury monikers associated with Sophia Pistis, often by those who believe her a wicked sorceress who has crippled or coerced the kingdoms into kneeling before her. [[Mythos/The Three Terrors|The Three Terrors]] are some of the most feared and reviled entities of the continent, so much so that most refrain even from whispering their names. There are some who claim that the foul witch Sophia Pistis commands them, either having made some dark pact with all three of them for power, or even more far-fetched that she is their creator or mother. While there is of course no hard proof to any of these slanderous statements, they will point out that, besides her clearly nefarious nature, Sophia Pistis has been able to swiftly and effectively deal with each of the Three Terrors on multiple occasions throughout history. How could she do such things so easily, unless she commanded them, they ask. Of course as with all matters regarding herself, those foolish enough to ask her directly will only receive an idle laugh or a dismissive wave in response.