---
title: "College of Night"
---
Hidden deep within the [[Geography/Natural/Forests#Black Forest|Black Forest]] lies an ancient college of the arcane where would-be mages have travelled to study and learn for centuries. Led by the renowned mage [[Culture/People/Sophia Pistis|Sophia Pistis]], the majority of all the arcane mages employed by royal courts and economic guilds across the continent were likely trained here. It's isolation deep within the Black Forest allow entrance to be via invitation only. It is said monsters lurk within the shadows amongst the trees to attack any intruders who might draw close. Those who claim to have business there will have to either communicate with someone with pull, or make the trip to [[Geography/Agercort#Calbend|Calbend]] and start petitioning those on their way in or out of the forest.

## Masters of the Seven
It is the College of Night whom award the titles of Master, both of the individual schools and of all of them. Those who are actually versed in arcane or otherwise magical knowledge will quickly point out that there are in fact eight schools of magic, not seven. This is because the College of Night explicitly denies the position of Master of Necromancy. While necromancy magic is not outright forbidden within the college, many forms of it are restricted or discouraged. There are a number of reasons given as suspected arguments why the College does not allow for masters of necromancy, but the College neither confirms nor denies. Upon being asked, Sophia Pistis has only responded with "it is in the College's best interests".