Where the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Kulte|Kulte]] branches from the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Reden|Reden]], split by [[Geography/Natural/Landforms#Mount Zirfeifen|Mount Zirfeifen]], sits the city of Flucha. A mixing place of Vurnam peoples with [[Geography/Mallerand|Mallerand]] and the [[Geography/Weald/Weald|Weald]], it is a diverse trade centre unlike any other. With almost 5,000 people residing there, only a little over half of whom are [[Culture/Mortal Races/Elf|elves]], there are all kinds of people and businesses present. While largely self-sustained by [[Culture/Crops and Agriculture#Sunstalk|sunstalk]] and [[Culture/Crops and Agriculture#Feathercorn|feathercorn]] farms in the east, a large amount of wealth comes from being the major crossroads of the continent. In addition to its economic wealth and cultural diversity, Flucha also boasts magical wealth as well with the [[Culture/List of Factions#Andrikelo Coven|Coven of the Dancing Hands]] having a large presence in the city.
## Temple of Tears
Carved into Mount Zirfeifen itself, the Temple of Tears is an ancient structure said to be the home of [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Lingzul#Skanareng, Beast of Metal|Skanareng]]. The clergy who tend to the great serpent and its temple have supplanted the [[Culture/Factions/Whitesun Lodge|Whitesun Lodge]] as the local proprietors of death. Those who die within the city are often brought into the temple for a mourning period before being cremated. There are many who make pilgrimages to the temple, followers and [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Lingzul|Lingzul]] and not, in order to make offerings to the great serpent and receive its blessings.
## Andrikelo College
Within the city is a small district primarily occupied by the [[Culture/List of Factions#Andrikelo Coven|Andrikelo Coven]], including places of residence, business, and training. This does also mean that there are a number of hags residing within the city, although the Coven has longstanding agreements with the local government to ensure peaceful coexistence. The significant advantages of having access to the coven's gifts far outweigh and discomfort some might feel for having witches living amongst them, and as far as covens go the Andrikelo are probably the most socially integrated and accepted.