---
title: "Drytog"
---
God of remembrance and light, Drytog has worshippers in chapels throughout the continent, although he has a particular presence in [[Geography/Vurnam#Baisen|Baisen]] and [[Geography/Weald/Weald#Pallgruff|Pallgruff]]. As a god, he is most often called upon in matters of death, from burial and internment, to memorials of those who have passed, to even the turning of undead. He is considered neutral good, and indeed he seems to demand all his followers be good, although beyond that his intent is sometimes vague even to his own clergy. Unlike the other gods who can still observe and intervene as they see fit, Drytog is dead and his capacity to directly influence the living world is diminished as a result. His clergy themselves are clerics who oversee funerary arrangements, but also tend to be healers, counsellors, or charity workers.

The symbol of Drytog is the sun, although often only through a simple white or gold circle which some believe is also what people see in their final moments, often being told by clerics to move towards the light. While the clergy of Drytog do not fear death, they still seek to prevent it where possible and often don't involve themselves with direct physical conflict. If need be, they will use a simple quarterstaff or blunt club, preferring nonlethal attacks. The only creatures to whom they don't show this mercy is anything undead who they unswervingly send to Drytog's waiting light.

## Whitesun Lodge
*see [[Culture/Factions/Whitesun Lodge|Whitesun Lodge]]*
Found across the continent, members of the Whitesun Lodge are both followers of Drytog and prolific do-gooders. Many act as healers, eulogists, curse breakers, inspirational speakers, even wandering heroes. The members of the Whitesun Lodge are committed to helping the people of the continent, regardless of any political affiliations, and are often universally trusted and well received. While full members often wander or patrol across a region, helping in the towns and communities they pass through, there are permanent Lodges as well. These are where new members are recruited and trained, and existing members can find supplies and support when needed.
## God's Rock
Found just outside [[Geography/Vurnam#Baisen|Baisen]], the so-called God's Rock is a great white monolith over 10 metres tall and 3 metres thick. The stone supposedly marks the exact spot Drytog died, explaining why the location has a unique and potent power that often draws mystics of all kinds to the location. It is expected that every cleric of Drytog make the pilgrimage to Baisen at least once in their lifetime, with many doing so as the final step of their training before being recognised as a fully trained cleric.
## Death
The death of Drytog is an unusual and much debated topic amongst divine scholars and philosophers, although the nuance and paradoxes of his death are admittedly often lost on common folk. Death is a final end for mortal creatures, they are born, then they live, and then they die. Sometimes this death is disturbed with necromancy, sometimes by corrupting their flesh into undeath, and more rarely by fixing what was broken and restoring someone to life. Those who have returned with a semblance of cognition intact describe it as though they fell unconscious, only to reawaken upon being restored. Lifeless entities, such as elementals, fiends, celestials, they were never born and will never die. If their physical body is destroyed, they will reform anew, never aging and unchanging. Some might casually group the gods amongst such lifeless entities, but the death of Drytog poses a problem to such an assessment - how can a lifeless entity die?

There are generally two schools of thought on the matter, each with their own problems. The first school of thought is that Drytog's death was not actually a traditional death. He is lifeless and cannot actually die, instead he was somehow changed in a fundamental way, and quite possibly permanently. In that sense, the old version of Drytog 'died' and was replaced with this new version. While this resolves the issue of how a lifeless entity can die, it raises some new questions: What caused Drytog to change? In what ways is this Drytog different to the previous one? Just as lifeless entities are supposed to be unable to die, they are also thought of as generally unchanging over time through similar merits. This school of thought trades the more problematic issue of dying for an arguably less problematic issue of changing. If Drytog can change, can the other gods? Can other lifeless entities? What possible means could cause a lifeless entity to change? Most scholars agree that God's Rock was a key component of Drytog's 'death', but what role it played is still unclear. Finally, the question that tends to concern his clergy the most - what was Drytog like before? Was the change small and nuanced, or was he once a completely different entity who would be unrecognisable today?

The second school of thought accepts that Drytog did indeed die, and does so through two uncomfortable proposals, leading it to be less popular and often considered heretical or deranged. Firstly, Drytog could die because the gods are not lifeless. Adherents to this school of thought claim that all the gods were once, and indeed in some ways still are, mortal individuals just like everyone else. Through some means, be it self-realization, the accumulation of divine energy, being the focus of faith, or even sheer chance, they all underwent some sort of apotheosis. This alone is often considered ridiculous or even insulting by some clergy, but it is the second proposal that really causes problems. If Drytog can die, and did die, how does he still act as a font of divine energy? His clerics still call upon his name, celestials still serve his ambitions, and while rare he still does perform miracles. He could be undead, but this seems unlikely (although not impossible) given his vehement distaste for the undead. He could have been resurrected, but there has never been any signs of this and he is clearly different from other 'living' gods according to those sensitive to such divine distinctions. The proposed theory is often referred to as after-life, a theoretical state of existence adding on to the end of the understood experience. Mortals are born, they live, they die, and then there is something else, something after life. What this is and how it works in purely speculative as there is no definitive proof of it even existing, but there are some eccentric scholars who dedicate their lives in pursuit of such a thing as after-life.