---
title: "Jirem"
---
God of ambition and secrets, he has official places of worship in a few places in [Mallerand](Geography/Mallerand.md) and [Vurnam](Geography/Vurnam.md), as well as ties to the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Jirem#Monastery of Moths|Monastery of Moths]]. He is also commonly called upon by criminals and renegades. Jirem promotes a philosophy of selfishness, each person should live for themselves and themselves alone. He has no issue with cheating, lying, crimes of any kind, as long as they are to your advantage. There is no value in killing someone for nothing, or angering others simply for the sake of it - his followers are not anarchists. While Jirem is neutral evil, his followers range from lawful to chaotic. Laws and communities exist for the betterment of everyone, if following the law means you can benefit from the safety and conveniences of living in a town, then of course you should follow the law. If you can break the law for personal gain, but do so without being caught or punished and so not lose any of those benefits either, even better. In some ways, he does represent the idea that it is not the act that is bad, but being caught. His clergy come in all sorts, although there are many monks and rogues who follow his teachings. Many act almost as professional mercenaries, hired out to perform certain tasks or roles for something in return. While they can be very helpful, acts of charity are tantamount to sin in the eyes of Jirem.

His symbol is that of an open eye, it is often painted or even tattooed onto the body of his clergy. While force and finesse are valuable assets, Jirem considers knowledge to be the most valuable tool of all. In acts of mysticism, Jirem is often called upon in seeking forbidden knowledge or strategic information, and indeed such information is also his preferred form of payment. His followers tend to prefer either long ranged weapons, or weapons easily concealed such as daggers, ideally to strike enemies without anyone ever knowing it was them.
## Monastery of Moths
Situated beyond the north-eastern borders of [Mallerand](Geography/Mallerand.md), isolated from the rest of civilization, sits this ancient monastery. It is here that the Order of the Unseen Path live and train, under the leadership of [[Culture/Important People#Yan Zhao, Leader of the Unseen Path|Yan Zhao]]. Followers of Jirem, they are masters of espionage, offering their services to any who can afford their prices. Demand for their services has diminished somewhat since the [[Culture/History/Scarlett War#The Burgundy Treatise|Burgundy Treatise]], but it is returning as conflicts continue to arise between the kingdoms or various factions without an active war to resolve them. The Monastery considers itself politically neutral - they don't have much interest in the squabbles between kingdoms - although they do occasionally reject certain jobs with the reasoning that it would not be profitable for them in the long run. Most people know not to anger the Monastery, as the rare occasions where someone does tends to be resolved quickly and without mercy - it is apparently more efficient to make an example of the few people stupid enough to make the Monastery an enemy.
## Murmur, The Inescapable
Home of Jirem, the supposed vault of all his knowledge and hoarded secrets, an impregnable palace of impossible architecture guarded by lurking [[Mythos/Realms/Endless Void#Proteans|proteans]]. Few can claim to have ever even glimpsed its coveted contents, but those who do speak of shifting floorplans and impossible geometry leaving them disoriented and lost within seconds of arrival. There are claims that the architect [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Ambrax#Latom, Shaper of Stones|Latom]] was inspired to build the [[Geography/Mallerand/Arx Saxum#Vaults of Sasellum|Vaults of Sasellum]] after visiting Murmur. Situated in the [[Mythos/Realms/Endless Void|primordial energies between planes]], it is effectively impossible to reach Murmur with regular means - instead one must either be invited or somehow divine a path to its ever-shifting and irrational location.