---
title: "Kanna"
---
God of hunger and swarms, Kanna is a god mostly only recognised by [[Culture/Mortal Races/Goblin|goblins]], with most other peoples seeing him as some sort of demon. He is said to be a creature of insatiable hunger, always eating anything given to him, an embodiment of mindless, destructive consumption. Chaotic and evil, not many actually worship Kanna, most goblins who acknowledge him simply try to appease the hungry god that they might not be eaten as well. It is said that disease and pestilence is the mouth of Kanna, come to consume those who have not given him appropriate offerings. His clergy are often druids, shamans, or witches who are more concerned with appeasing Kanna then serving him. There are goblin fables of those foolish enough to seek Kanna's blessings, monsters who live in the swamps and caves, wracked by endless hunger that they can never satisfy - a warning to be content with what you have and not let greed overtake you.

His symbol is that of a black snake eating its own tail, a reference to his own hunger being so great that he is said to even eat himself. Many mystics over history have endeavoured to decipher deeper meanings to Kanna's semantics, with much posturing but little evidence. His own clergy often seem less concerned with the nuance of Kanna's existence and more concerned with protecting their communities from his hunger. No one really fights in Kanna's name, but his clergy who fight against those who would rouse his anger tend to favour darts and nets, as well as having experience using poisoned weapons.