---
title: "Vorvado"
---
God of emptiness and destruction, there are scattered shrines of Vorvado across the continent, although more dedicated chapels are rare. Vorvado believes that reality is an illusion, an ephemeral façade created by the mind, and he seeks to break free of such restraints. While some interpret this literally, more commonly his actions are used to explain a philosophy of self-manifestation - the idea that through faith or determination, an individual may forge a path of their own choosing. He is considered lawful neutral, citing a need for strict self control and discipline to see beyond the mundane. Devoted acolytes of Vorvado, often monks or sorcerers, practice supernatural feats well beyond what most are physically capable of, claiming their power comes from realising the truth of the ways of the world and that anyone with sufficient persistence could do the same.

His symbol is that of two concentric hexagons, representing both the unyielding nature of his determination and the barriers that encapsulate the individual from which we need to break free. Those who fight for his name typically wield heavy weapons, with Vorvado himself often depicted with a great war maul.

## Fog of the False
It is said that it was an encounter with the mysterious Fog of the False that prompted Vorvado's enlightenment towards the illusion of reality. Any who have wandered near the [[Geography/Natural/Waterways#Sullen Swamp|Sullen Swamp]] would likely have heard cautionary tales of the eerie fog. When it rises from the depths of the marshlands, it will blanket whole swathes of land for days on end in a thick cloud of dull grey. Those unfortunate enough to be caught within are warned to trust nothing for the fog distorts the senses, causing illusions of sound and light and touch said to be indistinguishable from reality. Vorvado was said to have spent a year trapped within such fog, unable to find a way out, consumed by the distorted perceptions the fog created. It isn't clear what causes the fog to gather, it is simply a part of life in the swamps. Thankfully extended periods of fog are rare, most lasting only a few hours before beginning to dissipate.