---
title: "Zeva"
---
Goddess of fate and dreams, Zeva tends to be a favourite of wanderers and adventurers and so has many chapels throughout the [Weald](Geography/Weald/Weald.md). It is said by some that the world is simply Zeva's dream, while others liken it more to a collective dream. In either case Zeva believes there is meaning in the random, messages hidden in plain sight. She is chaotic neutral by nature, and all of her followers must embrace the chaotic nature of the world. Her followers are often bards or oracles, and she has a dedicated cult of worshippers called the [[Mythos/The Mortal Gods/Zeva#Order of Oneiromancers|Order of Oneiromancers]], to whom she sends cryptic visions and prophesies in the form of dreams.

Her symbol is that of a down facing crescent which some believe is tying her to the twilight in which people dream, although some followers claim the icon simply came to Zeva in a dream. Those who are driven to fight by her command tend to favour improvised weapons - random items on hand clearly destined for such a function.

## Order of Oneiromancers
A secretive cult of Zeva, they seem to move throughout the [Weald](Geography/Weald/Weald.md) as part of their 'work', although there is believed to be a old shrine of sorts near [[Geography/Weald/Weald#Odgood|Odgood]]. They keep themselves secluded from the rest of the world, spending most of their time in contemplation or meditative trance. Masters of the arts of prophecy, they will meet only with those deemed acceptable. It is said that Zeva speaks to them directly through dreams, showing them glimpses of what might and could be. There are those who speak of darker practices, claim that the oeiromancers step also into the dreams of others - nudging, manipulating, even scaring others into doing their bidding. It is sometimes said that when a person hears an impulsive thought or suffers deja vu that is the result of an oneiromancer having whispered to them in a dream.

## Stars of Zeva
It is unclear whether the Stars were made by Zeva, or if they joined her later - some even pose that they are her children. Regardless, they are akin to her left and right hands, equally representing her conflicting nature. Their names are either invoked in prayer or curse, depending on circumstance.

### Moira, the Evening Star
Often appearing as an older woman with slightly alien features - taller than a gnome but shorter than an elf, her eyes and ears more elongated than either. She has long white hair that glistens with golden stardust, and she typically wields a golden staff almost twice her height capped in the glowing light of a small star. She represents the aspect of destiny, the certainty of things that must come to be and the means by which chance conspires to make them. Often a patron of diviners and prophets, her words are recorded and often analysed and reanalysed for centuries afterwards in attempts to decipher their hidden meanings.

### Zephyr, the Shooting Star
Sometimes male, sometimes female, sometimes neither, old and young, tall and short, elf, dwarf, gnome, human, orc, goblin, some say Zephyr never takes the same face twice and indeed their form is ever shifting.  The only seeming consistency between appearances is a blue-white glow that they seem to emanate from within themselves, like a fizzing sea spray of light constantly scattering off their skin and dissipating into the air around them. They represent change, randomness, and the chance that *anything* could happen. When the odds are stacked against you, when you are certain that nothing could go wrong, when it seems like it is going to be another boring day, Zephyr can strike and turn everything on its head. Often a patron of gamblers who don't know any better, there are divine mages who have quite literally gone mad attempting to divine any deeper meaning to Zephyr's actions.